The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large "Caravans" of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws..... [0702 EDT]- ...Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People. Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don't allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen! [0710 EDT]- DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon... No longer works. Must build Wall and secure our borders with proper Border legislation. Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime! [0717 EDT]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.- Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws! [0908 EDT]- So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. [0928 EDT]- Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field! [0935 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)Go to Home Page »The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- HAPPY EASTER! [0827 EDT]- Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous. "Caravans" coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL! [0956 EDT]- Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL! [1025 EDT]- These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act! [1028 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON/IXTEPEC, Mexico —  President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.After tweeting a "Happy Easter" message on Twitter, he said: "Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous."'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!" he wrote, adding a threat to kill the North American Free Trade Agreement which is being renegotiated with Mexico and Canada.DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is a program created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Trump sought to rescind last autumn.Designed for people brought to the United States as children by parents who were undocumented immigrants, the program shielded them from deportation and gave them work permits.Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats who want to protect DACA in exchange for funding to build a U.S.-Mexico border wall, a campaign trail promise.He insisted during his 2016 White House run that Mexico would pay for the wall, something the Mexican government has repeatedly rejected.Mexico's presidential front-runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, launched his campaign close to the border on Sunday demanding respect for Mexicans and signaling he may take a harder line toward Trump if he wins the July 1 election."Mexico and its people will not be the piñata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, which borders El Paso, Texas.  "It's not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Whether Trump will stick to his guns on DACA is unclear. Trump last month threatened to veto a spending bill because it did not address the fate of Dreamers and did not fully fund his border wall but he ultimately signed the bill.In the months after Trump took office, apprehensions of illegal crossers along the U.S.- Mexico border dropped from more than 42,400 arrests in January 2017 to a low of around 15,700 in April, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection data. Since then, the number of arrests has risen and in the first months of 2018 was above Obama administration levels."Mexico has got to help us at the border," the president, who is spending Easter at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, told reporters on his way into an Easter church service. "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA. They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it."MIGRANT CARAVANTrump's DACA tweets came after a report on the Fox New Channel's Fox & Friends program, one of his favorites, that a "caravan" of mostly Honduran migrants was crossing Mexico and headed to the United States, "either illegally or by asking for asylum."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More than 1,000 would-be migrants have passed through Mexico's southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca in recent days in a so-called "refugee caravan" organized by U.S.-based immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In the town of Ixtepec, more than 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala waited in a sweltering warehouse on Saturday, mattresses rolled and bags packed, as local authorities and immigration officials from Mexico's federal government organized 15 buses to take them to their next stop on the long journey north.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.Gina Garibo, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras traveling with the migrants, said the group would hold a meeting to discuss Trump's statements on Sunday and stressed that the caravan's aim was to protect vulnerable people."The main people here are fleeing criminal violence, political violence, in their country and this allows us to save lives," she said in response to Trump's comments.A guest on Sunday's Fox & Friends show, Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council union, said illegal immigrants benefit from the "catch and release" program that Trump referenced in his tweet. Under it, they can be freed while awaiting court hearings if detained in the United States.If recent border crossers do not claim asylum, they can usually be deported quickly. But if they say they fear targeted violence or persecution in their home countries, they can begin the long process of petitioning for asylum in immigration court.Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that Mexico is doing "very little, if not NOTHING," to stop the flow of people across the southern border. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said the United States and Mexico work together on migration every day."An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter," he said in a tweet.Mexico deported some 80,000 people in 2017, down from about 160,000 in 2016, official statistics show. The vast majority were from Central American nations. The drop reflects fewer Central Americans crossing the country last year.(Reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Delphine Schrank in Ixtepec, Mexico; Additional reporting by by Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Mica Rosenberg in New York, David Lawder in Washington and Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Daniel Wallis)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  While President Donald Trump has said illegal immigrants heading toward the United States are trying to take advantage of an Obama-era policy that shields certain people from deportation, the program known as DACA is actually not open to new entrants.At issue is the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which the Republican president last September ordered rescinded. Under DACA, hundreds of thousands of young adults dubbed "Dreamers" who were brought into the United States illegally as children have been shielded from deportation and given work permits.On Sunday, apparently in reference to a caravan of 1,500 Central Americans who are journeying through Mexico toward the United States, Trump wrote on Twitter: "These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!"But there is no "act" to get in on. Newly arriving illegal immigrants cannot win protections under DACA, created in 2012 by Trump's Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, for two reasons.Anyone admitted into the program had to have been living continuously in the United States since June 15, 2007, along with other requirements. In addition, Trump himself ordered an end to the program, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is not accepting new applicants.Under Trump's action, DACA was supposed to have begun winding down last month. But courts have ruled that Trump acted improperly and that the hundreds of thousands of immigrants currently enrolled still qualified for protections while the legal fight over DACA unfolds.When he announced he was ending DACA, Trump urged Congress to come up with a legislative fix. Referring to the Dreamers, Trump said, "I have a great heart for the folks we're talking about, a great love for them."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Seven months later, DACA participants are living with the uncertainty over whether they will be protected or targeted for deportation.Meanwhile, following a series of failed negotiations with Democrats and some Republicans in Congress, Trump has been fuming over the refusal of lawmakers to fully fund a $25 billion wall he wants to build on the U.S.-Mexican border. The wall became a bargaining chip in DACA replacement legislation."NO MORE DACA DEAL!," Trump said on Twitter as he blamed Democrats for the situation. "DACA is dead."Matthew Wright, a government professor at American University in Washington, called Trump's tweets "not connected to reality." Wright noted that Trump rejected several Democratic offers to address DACA, including at one point a deal that would have provided $25 billion for his wall.Last month, Senator Angus King, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats, said Trump's rejection of that offer was the "high-water mark" for the wall's prospects in Congress, where support for it is tepid at best.(Reporting by Richard Cowan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Will Dunham)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump, who has taken a hard line toward immigration, said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can remain in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.It was unclear whether Trump, in any new immigration legislation, would support safeguards for people protected by DACA. The White House did not respond to requests for comment on Trump's tweets.Democrats blamed Trump for the tenuous status of a program that shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said on Twitter that the president created his own crisis."The President is blaming everyone under the sun, but he only has to look in the mirror to find the person who turned down six different bipartisan DACA deals from Congress - a few that included funding for his useless wall," Durbin said.Democrats had offered at one point to fully fund the wall Trump wants along the U.S.-Mexican border but rescinded the offer in January, accusing the president of reneging on elements of a tentative agreement."He walked away - not Democrats," Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein wrote on Twitter."Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People ... Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" Trump said in another Twitter post.Congress cannot pass any legislation immediately as lawmakers are on their second week of a spring recess, but taking a tough stance on immigration appeals to Trump's conservative base.Senate Republican leaders have ignored previous calls from Trump advocating the so-called nuclear option, which would involve changing Senate rules so Republicans could more easily overcome Democratic opposition to legislation in a chamber they control with a thin majority of 51 out of 100 seats.Cindy Agustin, 28, a DACA recipient and immigration activist in Chicago, said the impasse over the program breeds fear and uncertainty.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It's frustrating because we're in limbo right now," Agustin added.Trump also reiterated his call for Mexico to stop people from entering the United States, after saying on Sunday he would terminate a major trade accord with Mexico if it does not do more to secure its border with the United States.The United States is currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.BACK AGAINST THE WALLTrump made building a border wall - and making Mexico pay for it - one of his top campaign pledges when he ran for president in 2016. Mexico has refused to pay.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday he indicated that time had passed, writing on Twitter: "'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are traveling in a "refugee caravan" organized by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump's requirements.In light of Trump's call for the "nuclear option," a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Monday noted that Republican senators oppose changing existing rules governing the debate and passage of legislation.Major legislation usually needs a supermajority to pass the Senate. Without 60 votes in support, the Democratic minority can sink a bill.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu in Washington and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump's latest comments on immigration, made via Twitter, came as the U.S. Department of Justice moved to establish first-ever quotas for immigration judges aimed at speeding up cases and clearing a backlog.Trump said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can stay in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.Trump also urged Congress to "pass tough laws and build the WALL," referring to a U.S.-Mexico border wall he has championed as a way to curb illegal immigration and the flow of drugs.In a move aimed at speeding deportations, the Department of Justice sent an email on Friday to federal immigration judges telling them their job performance would be evaluated based on how quickly they close cases.Judges will be required to complete at least 700 cases a year and have fewer than 15 percent of their decisions appealed and remanded back, according to Dana Marks, spokeswoman for the National Association of Immigration Judges.Another metric demands that 85 percent of removal cases for detained immigrants be completed within three days of a hearing on the merits of the case. The new policy is expected to take effect on Oct. 1.A growing backlog of immigration cases reached 687,000 in March, according to a Reuters analysis of court records, and caused asylum seekers to wait years to present their cases.Amiena Khan, executive vice president of the immigration judges’ union, said the new rules threatened to interfere with judicial independence. “It’s going to create havoc within the courts,” said Khan, who also serves as an immigration judge in New York. “The integrity of the entire process is at risk.”On Monday, senior administration officials told reporters that legislation was being prepared aimed at helping speed deportations of some illegal immigrants. They did not provide a timetable for submitting it to Congress and did not say whether provisions to help DACA recipients would be included.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump's requirements.NO 'RELIABLE PARTNER'Democrats have blamed Trump for the tenuous status of the DACA program that shielded hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said in a telephone interview: "After the experience of giving this president six different bipartisan options and having him reject them all ... I don't believe we have a reliable partner" in negotiations that are now dormant.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday, he indicated that the time had passed, writing on Twitter: "'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are travelling in a "refugee caravan" organised by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By travelling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States."The only person gaming DACA is not in the caravan. He's in the Oval Office" of the White House, Durbin said, referring to Trump.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu and Sarah Lynch in Washington; Reade Levinson in New York and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Writing by Caren Bohan; Editing by Peter Cooney)Go to Home Page »PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed “NO MORE DACA DEAL” and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced “liberal” laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the “nuclear option” to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact “tough laws NOW.”It was unclear whether the president’s tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a “Fox and Friends” segment on immigration that had aired minutes before.Whatever his intention, Mr. Trump’s Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country.As he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that “Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.”The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible.Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough.Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats “blew it” after having “had a great chance.”“But we’ll have to take a look,” he added.Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations.Mr. Evans said the president’s comments were “simply unacceptable.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“NEED WALL!” he added.The president’s tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security.But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s tough stance on immigration.The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called “Catch & Release,” a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them.Critics say the practice — which, contrary to the president’s tweet, is not enshrined in law — gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out.Mr. Trump’s tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on “Fox and Friends” by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past.“Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said on the program. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.”Mr. Judd also said that the “catch and release” policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States.A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then.Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials.“Many of them know they won’t qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained,” said Roberto Corona, the group’s communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that country’s Congress.Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants.Ron Nixon and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington, and Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — In a pair of tweets before 6 a.m. on Tuesday, President Trump increased pressure on Democrats, reminding them of a countdown to strike a deal with Republicans so that young undocumented immigrants have a path to legally stay in the United States. He also appeared to suggest that if his recently unveiled infrastructure plan were unsuccessful, it would be the Democrats’ fault.Negotiations on DACA have begun. Republicans want to make a deal and Democrats say they want to make a deal. Wouldn’t it be great if we could finally, after so many years, solve the DACA puzzle. This will be our last chance, there will never be another opportunity! March 5th.Our infrastructure plan has been put forward and has received great reviews by everyone except, of course, the Democrats. After many years we have taken care of our Military, now we have to fix our roads, bridges, tunnels, airports and more. Bipartisan, make deal Dems?Mr. Trump plans to meet with Republicans and Democrats this week to discuss his proposal.Go to Home Page »Citing President Trump’s “racially charged language,” a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled on Thursday that a lawsuit seeking to preserve a program that protects hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants from deportation could continue.The order, by Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, was the strongest sign so far of judicial support for the program known as DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which has for months been the subject of a heated debate in Congress.But in his order rejecting the motion to dismiss, Judge Garaufis pointed directly at Mr. Trump, noting that his numerous “racial slurs” and “epithets” — both as a candidate and from the White House — had created a “plausible inference” that the decision to end DACA violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution.“One might reasonably infer,” Judge Garaufis wrote, “that a candidate who makes overtly bigoted statements on the campaign trail might be more likely to engage in similarly bigoted action in office.”The ruling on Thursday took the legal process in New York one step further, strongly hinting at what Judge Garaufis thought about the suit’s central claims. It did not offer a conclusive win for the plaintiffs, only allowing the case to move forward toward a summary judgment decision or a trial. But it was notable for its strong language suggesting that there may have been an improper racial motivation for rescinding the DACA program.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While the judge noted that looking for racial bias, especially in “campaign-trail statements,” was a potentially fraught process that could result in an “evidentiary snark hunt,” he concluded that his court could not “bury its head in the sand when faced with overt expressions of prejudice.”In a separate prong of the ruling, Judge Garaufis said that the decision to rescind DACA violated the Administrative Procedure Act, or APA, a federal law that bars the government from repealing policies arbitrarily, capriciously or without a rational basis.The plaintiffs immediately welcomed the ruling as yet another victory in the case.“We’re pleased the court ruled that our substantive equal protection and APA claims can proceed,” said Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general. “We look forward to continuing our litigation to protect Dreamers and New York’s businesses, economy, and institutions.”Jessica Hanson, a lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center, said that the ruling “again acknowledged that our brave plaintiffs present important claims, including that the decision to terminate DACA was rooted in Trump’s bias against Latinos.”Devin O’Malley, a spokesman for the Justice Department, did not address Judge Garaufis’s criticisms of Mr. Trump. In a statement, he said that DACA was “an unlawful circumvention of Congress” and that the Trump administration was “within its lawful authority” in winding it down.“The Justice Department will continue to vigorously defend this position,” Mr. O’Malley added, “and looks forward to vindicating its position in further litigation.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the spokeswoman for the New York attorney general. She is Amy Spitalnick, not Spitalnik.See More »Go to Home Page »For the second time in two months, a federal judge has stepped into an intense political fight over immigration policy, issuing an injunction that orders the Trump administration to keep in place the embattled program known as DACA, which protects young undocumented immigrants from deportation.Under the ruling, the government will now have to maintain DACA as it was before the Sept. 5 announcement. But it does not have to accept new applications, Judge Garaufis wrote, and it can decide renewal requests on a case-by-case basis. While Judge Garaufis noted that he was “sympathetic” to those who were unable to apply for DACA before Sept. 5, he added that the injunction would not apply to them.The immigration lawyers who brought the case nonetheless hailed his ruling as a victory.“During a week when the Senate is having a battle over immigration, we now have two judges saying that what happened on Sept. 5 was not justified,” said Marisol Orihuela, a lawyer from the Jerome N. Frank Legal Services Organization at Yale Law School. “This sends a clear message to lawmakers to act and pass something.”After the decision, Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement that the judge had affirmed the states’ position. “Federal courts from coast to coast have now reviewed the record and reached the same conclusion,” Mr. Schneiderman said. “President Trump’s decision to rescind DACA was illegal.”In a statement, Devin O’Malley, a spokesman for the Justice Department, reiterated arguments that the government had made before Judge Garaufis, saying that DACA was “an unlawful circumvention of Congress” and that the Department of Homeland Security had “acted within its lawful authority.”“Promoting and enforcing the rule of law is vital to protecting a nation, its borders, and its citizens,” Mr. O’Malley added. “The Justice Department will continue to vigorously defend this position, and looks forward to vindicating its position in further litigation.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Since the Trump administration’s decision to end the program, Judge Garaufis wrote, more than 100 DACA recipients a day have been losing their protected status — a number, he noted, that could rise to as many as 1,400 a day once the program officially ends on March 5. All of them could face deportation, he said; some may face the loss of health care, imposing burdens not only on the immigrants themselves, but also on public hospitals. Employers will be hurt as DACA recipients lose their jobs, Judge Garaufis added, “resulting in staggering adverse economic impacts” that could include up to $800 million in lost tax revenue.Ending DACA would also have “profound and irreversible” social costs, Judge Garaufis said, as hundreds of thousands of recipients are separated from their families. “It is impossible to understand the full consequences of a decision of this magnitude,” he wrote.Though he has repeatedly said that he would prefer Congress, not the courts, fix DACA, Judge Garaufis has from the start of the case had tough words for the government in general and for Mr. Trump specifically. At a hearing in January, he slammed Mr. Trump for his “recurring redundant drumbeat of anti-Latino commentary.”“This isn’t ordinary,” Judge Garaufis said. “In this country, in over 250 years, it’s extreme, it’s recurrent and it’s vicious.”At the same hearing, Judge Garaufis also took a shot at Mr. Sessions, who had rebuked him at a speech in October for an earlier remark the judge had made calling the repeal of DACA “heartless.” Citing the speech, Judge Garaufis said in open court that Mr. Sessions “seems to think that courts don’t get to have their own opinions.”But, Judge Garaufis wrote, “the administrative record does not support defendants’ contention that they decided to end DACA for this reason.” In fact, he added, the government had showed “a failure to explain their decision” at all.Follow Alan Feuer on Twitter: @alanfeuerGo to Home Page »President Trump challenged Congress to pass legislation to protect undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. But as time runs out, he has taken the lead.When President Trump announced that he would end the Obama-era program called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, he gave Congress six months to make it law. Otherwise, many undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children could be deported.As the clock counts down, why is the president making the program his problem once again?On today’s episode:Background reading:If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter and Christopher Werth, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.See More »Go to Home Page »Updated on Jan. 25.As lawmakers continue to furiously debate a resolution, we wanted to bring you up to speed on what is at stake, when it will matter and why. Here are the basics.The program was introduced in 2012 by President Barack Obama as a stopgap measure that would shield from deportation people who were brought into the United States as children. The status is renewable, lasting two years at a time. The program does not provide a pathway to citizenship.Participation in the program comes with a range of benefits. Along with permission to remain in the country, recipients can also get work permits, through which many have obtained health insurance from their employers.The ability to work has also allowed them to pay for school, pursue higher education and, in some states, drive legally. The program also opened up access to in-state tuition and state-funded grants and loans in some states. And depending on where they live, recipients can also qualify for state-subsidized health care.DACA recipients are often referred to as Dreamers, after a similar piece of legislation called the Dream Act, which was introduced in 2001 and would have given its beneficiaries a path to American citizenship. They now fall between the ages of 16 and 35; the vast majority came from Mexico, though many others were born in Central and South America, Asia and the Caribbean. The status has been issued to roughly 800,000 people.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.It came about after more than a decade of failed negotiations in Congress over how to deal with the Dreamers. The Dream Act never passed, but it gained widespread popularity among the American electorate and, at various points, both houses of Congress, hatching much of the political activism that is propelling the current debate.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Trump administration plans to appeal the decision, and has also taken the rare step of asking the Supreme Court to rule on the appeal before the circuit court decision comes down. If the Supreme Court agrees, it could delay the potential deportations of beneficiaries even further because the injunction will remain in place until a decision is made.On the left, many progressives, immigrant advocates and DACA recipients themselves have been hoping for a “clean” Dream Act — that is, a law that would offer Dreamers a path to citizenship, and would not be tied to any other policies, immigration-related or not.The other solutions that lawmakers have been debating contain various combinations of these concessions, as well as other demands that are being made by Democrats.The border wall has become the symbol of President Trump’s hard-line immigration policy. So why did Democrats offer to fund it if Republicans protect young undocumented immigrants?If Congress does not come up with a solution and the injunction against the DACA phaseout is lifted by the courts, recipients will begin to lose protection as their two-year statuses expire and are no longer renewable, beginning in March.See More »Go to Home Page »About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers — young adult immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children — could face possible deportation unless Congress can find a solution in the coming weeks.In September, President Trump announced he would not renew the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, that provides these young people with certain temporary protections. The program is set to expire on March 5.What should Congress do? What should Americans who care about this issue do? In this lesson, students learn more about the immigrants affected by this political standoff; evaluate the policy proposals being debated; and explore ways to have their voices heard on one of the most contentious issues in American politics._________Warm UpAgree or Disagree Statements:_______Article and QuestionsHere is an excerpt:What is DACA?The program was introduced in 2012 by President Barack Obama as a stopgap measure that would shield from deportation people who were brought into the United States as children. The status is renewable, lasting two years at a time. The program does not provide a pathway to citizenship.Participation in the program comes with a range of benefits. Along with permission to remain in the country, recipients can also get work permits, through which many have obtained health insurance from their employers.The ability to work has also allowed them to pay for school, pursue higher education and, in some states, drive legally. The program also opened up access to in-state tuition and state-funded grants and loans in some states. And depending on where they live, recipients can also qualify for state-subsidized health care.Ask students to answer the following questions as they read:1. When was DACA introduced, and what benefits does it provide its participants?2. Who are the Dreamers? What requirements must they meet to be eligible for DACA?3. Why did President Trump announce in September he was ending DACA?4. What concessions do the White House and many Republican lawmakers want in exchange for providing a path to citizenship for DACA beneficiaries?5. Why are many progressives, immigrant advocates and DACA recipients hoping for a “clean” Dream Act, and what would that law offer the Dreamers?6. What will happen if Congress cannot come up with a solution and the injunction against the DACA phaseout is lifted by the courts?_________ActivityStudents can take turns reading quotes aloud. After each quote is read, the group discusses which pile the quote belongs in.After students sort the quotes, groups can report back to the class about which quotes they tended to agree or disagree with — or which quotes ended up in Pile 3 because they could not reach a consensus._________Before they get started, students can do additional research. Relevant articles in The Times include:_________See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorWhy am I glad that senators voted against legislation that would have given me a path to citizenship? Because those bills would also have harmed people I loved.I couldn’t accept a deal that protected me while criminalizing so many others — from my colleagues to my aunts and uncles. I couldn’t accept a deal that made it harder for immigrants to bring their families to this country.I was ambivalent about the first vote, on a measure from the Republican Senator John McCain and his Democratic colleague Chris Coons that had been denounced by President Trump. It would have increased border enforcement, but it would not have ended family-based migration. Once that was defeated, the best I could hope for was another stalemate.While the senators were debating, I was watching from above, in the gallery with a group of fellow Dreamers. Looking down at the senators chit-chatting, all I could think about was our parents and the sacrifices they have made for us. I know so many immigrant parents who wake up every day at 4 or 5 in the morning to get to work on time and provide food and shelter for their kids. I thought of my own parents, who were forced to move back to Mexico when I was in high school because they had no path to legal status here.Over the past 17 years, since the Dream Act was introduced in 2001, politicians have played with our lives, particularly during election years like this one. They go out of their way to say they care about our community, while sending members of our community to detention centers.The proposal that perhaps had the best chance of passing came from a bipartisan group that called itself the Common Sense Coalition. Seen as less bad for immigrants than the plan from Charles E. Grassley that Donald Trump endorsed, it still included $25 billion for border security, changes to our immigration system that would lead to more deportations and a reduction of family-based immigration. As someone whose own family was separated by this country’s immigration system, I prayed that both bills would fail.It was hard for me to watch the vote. A group of mostly white men in suits, with a simple thumbs up or thumbs down, had the power to change the lives of so many people like me. And I’d seen senators fail us before. Eight years ago, I was watching just as closely when the Dream Act came up for a vote. Back then, Democrats controlled the Senate. But with Republicans opposed and five Democrats refusing to support us, the bill failed.I was watching, too, in 2013, after many sleepless nights of organizing and mobilizing our community, when the Senate actually passed a comprehensive immigration reform bill. But nothing could persuade Speaker John Boehner to allow a vote on it in the House.This time, the only bright moment was the defeat of President Trump’s favorite plan. When it failed by the biggest margin, I couldn’t help smiling. In the end, though, Congress had made no progress on protecting immigrant youth like me. Talking with other Dreamers on the phone afterward, we cried together. We cried because we are tired of the country we call home refusing to recognize our humanity.Who, then, should we blame? While I am deeply frustrated by senators on both sides, President Trump is the one who created this crisis. Last September, he was the one who decided to end DACA. And since then, he has rejected bipartisan compromises, while using his power and his microphone to demonize immigrants of color.I’m going to graduate from college in May. But will I be able to use my degree? If Congress does nothing, the papers that I received from DACA will expire in January. It’s hard to feel hopeful in what is supposed to be a land of opportunity.But my parents taught me to be a warrior in moments of uncertainty. I’m going to keep fighting, not just for Dreamers, but for our families, too.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSGood morning.Here’s what you need to know:As part of that effort, Democrats are pushing to protect hundreds of thousands of immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children.Republicans say they want to address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that protects those immigrants, but to do so separately from government funding.• President Trump offered that reassurance on Sunday, after three days of global uproar over vulgar remarks he is said to have made during a White House meeting on immigration.• Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Gen. Joseph Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have argued forcefully to address North Korea’s nuclear ambitions with diplomacy.The government said on Sunday that nearly 4,000 had been arrested during the unrest, and that 25 people had died, of whom two killed themselves and one was a “terrorist” who died in clashes with security forces.President Hassan Rouhani, who has defended the right of peaceful protest, appeared to support those who doubt the official accounts.• Our podcast team is off for the holiday. “The Daily” will return Tuesday.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.“You can’t look down to read the speech,” she said of her crown. “If you did, your neck would break.”Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I’ve been involved in the civil rights movement since my college days, and I’m not sure I’ve ever been more confused than I am right now.”The headquarters for the U.S. military have always stood out.The Pentagon building was already in use when it was dedicated 75 years ago today, at the height of World War II.The first architectural reviews were not glowing, but they improved over time.“Everyman, or Littleman, triumphed over all. Thousands of secretaries and office workers have turned the Pentagon into a cluttered, cosy, home-away-from-home.”Sarah Anderson contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »The administration’s request is unusual, and it comes amid an ongoing political battle over immigration. The program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, is at the center of it.The Justice Department said it had also appealed the decision, issued by Judge William Alsup of the Federal District Court in San Francisco. His ruling imposed a nationwide stop on the Trump administration’s decision to end the program until litigation can be heard.There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.Elaine Duke, the acting homeland security secretary at the time, “acted within her discretion to rescind this policy with an orderly wind-down,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement. “We are now taking the rare step of requesting direct review on the merits of this injunction by the Supreme Court so that this issue may be resolved quickly and fairly for all the parties involved.”The Justice Department’s request means that the case, brought by the University of California system and its president, Janet Napolitano, herself the former secretary of homeland security, could be heard by the Supreme Court even before it winds its way through the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Federal courts in Texas used sweeping, national injunctions to stop then-president Barack Obama from implementing policies on transgender rights, overtime pay and other initiatives. More recently, judges in Hawaii, California and other states have used cases to push back on President Trump’s immigration and travel orders.Legal scholars have questioned the practice of using an individual case to apply broad orders, saying that it encourages plaintiffs’ lawyers to shop around for sympathetic judges who will use the power of the court to impose their strong views on the country.Mr. Sessions echoed that worry.“It defies both law and common sense” for the beliefs of a single district court “to somehow be mandated nationwide,” he said.See More »Go to Home Page »Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:President Trump’s decision last year to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program led to a fierce debate over the future of the 800,000 immigrants who could face deportation starting in March.President Trump said legislation around an immigration overhaul should come from love, while also pushing for stronger security measures.It is the first time a federal court has blocked a congressional map because of a partisan gerrymander. State lawmakers were ordered to reconfigure congressional districts by Jan. 24.• It is the latest turn in an improbable career in modern American politics.Stephen Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist, was ousted from his post as executive chairman at Breitbart News, the right-wing website he used as a mouthpiece.• North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, spent last year rattling the world with nuclear and missile tests.North Korea has agreed to send athletes to the 2018 Winter Games in South Korea, but the Olympics have long been a window into geopolitics between the two sides.At least 18 people have been killed in mudslides in California. Survivors — including Oprah Winfrey — are slogging through the rubble and trying to recover.The foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign drew the attention of the F.B.I. But he differs greatly from other figures in the Trump-Russia story.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.Many preschool teachers live on the edge of financial ruin.“It’s going to be chaos. He gave them 19 years of work, and how do they repay him? They tell him, ‘Get out of here.’ ”Ninety years ago this month, Leon Trotsky, one of the early leaders of the Communist Party, was exiled by Joseph Stalin to what is now Kazakhstan, clearing the way for Stalin’s complete control of the Soviet Union.Trotsky, an ever-wandering revolutionary, was no stranger to exile.After the death of Vladimir Lenin in 1924, Stalin and his faction propounded “socialism in one country.” Trotskyists bristled, calling for a “permanent revolution,” global in scope, and accused Stalin of betraying Lenin’s vision.The feud between Stalin and Trotsky would culminate in the anti-Trotskyist show trials in Moscow and the terrifying purges of the 1930s. It ended in Mexico City, where Trotsky settled, when he was killed by an assassin wielding an ice ax in 1940.Penn Bullock contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »The tactic has gained popularity among federal judges as a tool to combat perceived executive overreach. But legal scholars say it is helping to erode the idea of an impartial judiciary, and Judge Alsup’s decision opened him to critiques that he overstepped his boundaries by applying national orders in a regional case.The possibility of obtaining a comprehensive injunction that impedes, or even thwarts, the opposition has legal scholars worried that more plaintiffs’ lawyers will take cases to sympathetic judges.“How can a single judge decide a question for the whole country?” Mr. Bray said.The use of local cases to issue national orders occurred only a few times until President Barack Obama’s second term, when Republican state attorneys general turned to that strategy about half a dozen times to stop some of his major initiatives, Mr. Bray said.The tactic has grown more popular as voters become more polarized and Congress is historically unproductive. “If the legislature were solving problems and creating legislation, and if we didn’t have as much executive overreach, then these big national issues wouldn’t be going to the courts as much,” said Wendy R. Weiser, a director at the Brennan Center for Justice.“Increasingly, legal scholars are concerned about the way national injunctions are transforming the relationship between the courts and the political branches,” Mr. Bray said.While the debate over national injunctions has so far been a quiet affair among scholars, those orders have forced the government and the court system into a public crisis mode.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2014, Judge Andrew S. Hanen of the Federal District Court in Brownsville, Tex., delayed an executive action drafted by Mr. Obama that gave as many as five million undocumented immigrants temporary protection from deportation and permitted them to work. Judge Hanen said that the program, Deferred Action for Parents of Americans, could not be enforced nationwide until litigation was resolved.When appeals courts do not block these injunctions, the Supreme Court can be forced to intervene, as it did with the Obama-era immigration case.There is speculation that the Supreme Court will address universal injunctions in the coming year. “The justices don’t like the districts courts changing national policy overnight,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law Houston.The Supreme Court has typically heard cases after they have wound their way through the court system, giving the justices an opportunity to weigh multiple rulings from multiple judges.“When national injunctions accelerate decision making, the Supreme Court only gets views on one side of the argument,” Mr. Blackman said. “It’s forced to decide major constitutional questions with no trials, no contrary views and with less time.”In some cases, arguments for nationwide injunctions make sense, according to some legal scholars. If, for example, Mr. Trump’s order on DACA is rejected after immigrants are forced out of the country, the harm to them could be irreparable.But even lawyers who have supported the use of national injunctions say their use should be curbed. Mr. Blackman, who filed briefs that supported a national injunction against Mr. Obama’s executive action on immigration, said they should not be used in cases of so-called sanctuary cities because each one deals with a different set of issues and punitive measures.“These injunctions are pushing to new frontiers,” Mr. Blackman said.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — In the middle of an intense political fight about the program that shields from deportation young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children, a federal judge in California issued a nationwide injunction late Tuesday ordering the Trump administration to start the program back up again.Saying the decision to kill it was improper, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco wrote that the administration must “maintain the DACA program on a nationwide basis” as the legal challenge to the president’s decision goes forward.There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.But critics of the president’s decision to end the policy, including several states and organizations, had already sued the administration, saying that shutting down the program was arbitrary and done without following the proper legal procedures.One of the lead plaintiffs in the case, Janet Napolitano, is currently the president of the sprawling University of California system of colleges but served as the secretary of homeland security for Mr. Obama in 2012 and was an architect of the DACA program.In his ruling, Judge Alsup questioned the administration’s contention that the DACA program had not been put into place legally. He asserted that the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security has long had the authority to grant the kind of temporary protections that formed the basis of the program.The judge wrote that previous beneficiaries of DACA, known as Dreamers, must be allowed to renew their status in the program, though the government will not be required to accept new applications from immigrants who had not previously submitted one. The judge also said the administration could continue to prevent DACA recipients from returning to the United States if they leave the country.It is unclear what the legal effect could be from the judge’s ruling, but the Trump administration may be headed for more intense legal wrangling like the kind that happened after the president’s travel bans.A spokesman for the Justice Department, Devin O’Malley, said that the ruling did not change the department’s stance.“DACA was implemented unilaterally after Congress declined to extend these benefits to this same group of illegal aliens,” he said. “As such, it was an unlawful circumvention of Congress, and was susceptible to the same legal challenges that effectively ended DACA. The Department of Homeland Security therefore acted within its lawful authority in deciding to wind down DACA in an orderly manner. Promoting and enforcing the rule of law is vital to protecting a nation, its borders, and its citizens.”The administration could quickly appeal the judge’s ruling, hoping that an appeals court would prevent the injunction from taking effect and allowing the shutdown of the DACA program as the president announced in September.But such a ruling could itself be appealed all the way to the Supreme Court, potentially tying the fate of the DACA program in court action for days, weeks or longer.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Either way, the ruling could have serious political effect.If the court’s order to restart the DACA program stands, that could take pressure off Republicans and Democrats to find a political solution for the young immigrants who could be deported if the program ends.Almost immediately after the president rescinded the DACA program in September, Mr. Trump expressed sympathy for the young immigrants who were children when their parents brought them to the country illegally. Mr. Trump repeated his sympathies on Tuesday at the White House meeting.Democrats have seized on the president’s attitude, urging their Republican colleagues to support legislation that would permanently legalize the Dreamers to work in the United States, and give them an eventual path to American citizenship.But hard-line conservatives say that would amount to an amnesty program for lawbreakers, and some Republicans in Congress have been pressing for other immigration changes before they will support legislation for the Dreamers.In particular, Republicans at the White House meeting demanded an end to rules that allow immigrants to sponsor their extended family members — aunts, uncles, cousins — to enter the United States. And they want an end to a State Department visa lottery program that prioritizes legal immigration from certain countries in Africa and elsewhere.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Democrats have warned that demands for those measures could undermine support from their party for legislation on the Dreamers, potentially threatening a budget deal necessary to keep the government open past this month.Xavier Becerra, the California attorney general and a former Democratic representative in Congress, filed one of the lawsuits seeking to block the administration from ending the DACA program. He hailed the judge’s ruling in a statement.“Today’s ruling is a huge step in the right direction,” Mr. Becerra said. “We will fight at every turn for their rights and opportunities so they may continue to contribute to America.”But some advocates expressed concern that the legal efforts, while well intentioned, could undermine the push to earn permanent relief for the young immigrants.Camille Mackler, the director of immigration legal policy at the New York Immigration Coalition, said that while advocates were relieved that more DACA recipients would be able to renew their membership, they expected the government to appeal the judge’s ruling.In the meantime, she said, only legislation offering legal status to Dreamers would suffice to protect them.“This is not a win for us,” Ms. Mackler said. “We’re obviously glad that this is going to provide some relief, but what we really need is a clean Dream Act,” a reference to a bill that only legalizes the young immigrants without also imposing other immigration changes that Republicans are demanding.Katie Benner contributed reporting from Washington, and Vivian Yee from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »Three former homeland security secretaries warned congressional leaders and officials of both parties on Wednesday that the window for legislative action to protect undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children will close by the middle of January, months before a period outlined by the White House.The letter — signed by Jeh Johnson and Janet Napolitano, homeland security secretaries under President Barack Obama, and Michael Chertoff, a homeland security secretary under President George W. Bush — was sent as congressional leaders and aides to President Trump prepare for a meeting on Wednesday on Capitol Hill, where the Obama-era program known as Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, is expected to be discussed.“We write not only in strong support of this legislation, but to stress that it should be enacted speedily, in order to meet the significant administrative requirements of implementation, as well as the need to provide certainty for employers and these young people,” the letter said. “For these reasons, the realistic deadline for successfully establishing a Dreamers program in time to prevent large-scale loss of work authorization and deportation protection is only weeks away, in the middle of January.”Three former secretaries of homeland security, Jeh Johnson, Janet Napolitano and Michael Chertoff, sent a letter to congressional leaders urging action to replace the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.They went on to warn that they knew of the number of changes that must be enforced to allow applications by Dreamers who would apply to stay in the United States.The six-month deadline set by Mr. Trump perpetuated a misconception that there was no urgency in finding a solution, the letter continued.“Legislation is the only permanent way to prevent these Dreamers from losing work authorization and becoming subject to immediate deportation,” the letter said. “Establishing a program to effectively adjudicate a new immigration application system must be done responsibly.”There needs to be proper time to train people to ensure that applications are properly reviewed, they wrote, saying that when DACA was established, it took nearly three months before the first applications were approved.They estimated that Congress would need to pass a bill by Jan. 19 to guarantee enough time for the applications to be processed before the March 5 date that the Trump administration set as a grace period of sorts.Any delay would have consequences not only for the immigrants covered by the program, but also for the businesses who employ them, the letter said.It was up to Congress to determine whether to pass legislation that would extend those protections that would “allow them to continue contributing to the only nation they have known,” the former secretaries said.“Not only is there no reason to delay, but establishing this new program in 45 days would be an incredible accomplishment done in record time,” the letter continued.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Aides to the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate declined to comment.Publicly, the president has insisted on funding for his promised wall along the southern border with Mexico, as well as other security measures, as part of a deal. Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers say they anticipate him signing off on a deal, regardless of concerns among conservative members of congress and certain West Wing aides. John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, is said to favor a deal as well, although he is not expected to attend the meeting on Wednesday.Go to Home Page »The federal government said on Saturday that it would resume accepting renewal requests for a program that shields from deportation young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children.The agency said on Saturday that people who were previously granted deferred action under the program could request a renewal if it had expired on or after Sept. 5, 2016. People who had previously received DACA, but whose deferred action had expired before Sept. 5, 2016, cannot renew, but can instead file a new request, the agency said. It noted that the same instructions apply to anyone whose deferred action had been terminated.But officials also said they were not accepting requests from individuals who have never been granted deferred action under DACA.Critics of the president’s decision to end the policy later sued the administration, saying that shutting down the program was arbitrary and done without following the proper legal procedures.The legal battle is one piece of a fierce debate in Washington. Democrats and Republicans have sparred for months about how to provide relief for about 800,000 immigrants who could face deportation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Later that day, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco handed down his ruling, writing that the administration must “maintain the DACA program on a nationwide basis” as the legal challenge to the president’s decision goes forward.In his ruling, Judge Alsup laid out a road map for the government that officials appeared to follow. He said that previous beneficiaries of DACA, known as Dreamers, must be allowed to renew their status in the program, though the government would not be required to accept new applications from immigrants who had not previously submitted one.On Sunday morning, Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for preventing progress on a legislative deal that would permanently legalize the young immigrants and give them an eventual path to citizenship in exchange for tougher border security and enforcement measures.The president criticized Democratic lawmakers, some of whom have suggested that they will not support efforts to fund the government by a deadline later this week unless Congress passes the DACA legislation.“DACA is probably dead because the Democrats don’t really want it, they just want to talk and take desperately needed money away from our Military,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla.In a second tweet, Mr. Trump said that immigration legislation should include an end to the diversity visa lottery system, in which the State Department encourages diversity in immigration by holding a lottery for those wanting to come to the United States.The president has criticized the program as a threat to the country’s security even though people selected are screened in the same ways that other immigrants are. Mr. Trump has also said that the program undermines efforts by the administration to allow immigrants who have skills that will be beneficial to the United States.“I, as President, want people coming into our Country who are going to help us become strong and great again, people coming in through a system based on MERIT,” he said. “No more Lotteries! #AMERICA FIRST.”Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeKaren Reyes spends her days teaching a group of deaf toddlers at Lucy Read Pre-Kindergarten School in Austin, Tex., how to understand a world they cannot hear.For the first time in her four-year teaching career, Ms. Reyes, 29, is at a loss. One of nearly 9,000 educators protected under the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, Ms. Reyes has struggled to explain to her students, through sign language and pictures, the uncertainty of her future.“I don’t know what I’m going to tell them,” Ms. Reyes said through tears. “They understand when I go on an airplane. Maybe they’ll just think I’m on a never-ending flight.”Educators played a crucial role in helping young unauthorized immigrants realize DACA’s potential. The National Education Association, for instance, held clinics at which it encouraged eligible families to apply for the program, and worked with school districts to declare themselves “safe zones” for undocumented students and their families.“Every day, educators are being told to forget about the fact that at any given moment the rug will be pulled out of your lives and you may lose your job,” said Lily Eskelsen García, the president of the N.E.A., the nation’s largest labor union. “To see them treated in this despicable way, to see them treated as pawns, is just not fair.”Ms. Reyes resents that she has to prove her worth, beyond her use of her newfound freedom to teach in America’s classrooms.“There’s so much pressure to be a perfect immigrant,” Ms. Reyes said. “They basically want us to save babies from burning buildings, have a 5.0 GPA and become doctors. But I’m just teaching these tiny humans to be great Americans.”Ms. Reyes was brought to the United States from Monterrey, Mexico, by her mother at age 2. When she thinks of home, she thinks of the only one she can remember, in San Antonio — a big city with a small-town feel, where she and her grandmother would pick pecans from a tree in the front yard. Her childhood was “all-American,” she said, recalling late afternoons at marching band practice, at the Y.M.C.A. or selling Girl Scout cookies.The only thing that distinguished her life from those of her friends was that she spoke Spanish at home, and her mother was strict. When she was 14, she found out why.Her friends wanted to take a shopping trip to South Padre Island, then Laredo, on the Texas border with Mexico, but her mother forbade her from going because if she came upon an immigration checkpoint, she would not have the paperwork to pass.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It changes the trajectory of your life,” Ms. Reyes said.The barriers of being undocumented became more apparent after that — especially in applying to college. But with teachers’ help, she secured private scholarships for a graduate school program for special education teachers who wanted to teach the hearing-impaired.She received her master’s degree from the University of Texas at San Antonio, and now educates six hearing-impaired 3- and 4-year-olds.“It’s like a game of charades in my classroom everyday, but we have a lot of fun,” Ms. Reyes said. “We’re on a journey together.”Hugo Arreola, who received DACA protection in 2012, is grappling with guilt.Mr. Arreola works at the Phoenix high school from which he graduated, with 200 DACA recipients, many of whom he persuaded to apply for the program.“Now, it’s basically putting their trust in the government to not abuse what started as an opportunity, to make deportation lists,” he said. “It’s a lot of anxiety and fear, and questions.”Vicente Rodriguez, an aspiring English teacher, is preparing for the worst. Timing has not been kind to his journey. He was the only one of his mother’s five children born in Mexico, because a family emergency took her back home for a few months. His DACA permit will expire before he can complete his master’s program in teaching.He said if he is forced to leave, he will still try to teach.“I’m educated, so I can go anywhere in the world, but I wanted to be here,” he said. “I wanted to give back — to be that one good teacher a child remembers — in the country that gave me this opportunity.”Across the country, teachers have grappled with the immigration debate’s aftershocks. They deal with crying colleagues, students acting out after a family member is deported and trembling when classmates talk about the past night’s news, and parents skipping teacher conferences and school events.Ms. García, the N.E.A. president, blamed Mr. Trump.“It started at the beginning of this administration, where for the first time in history children cried over who got elected president because of the toxic campaign around immigrants,” she said. “Now, there are crying teachers.”And teachers have turned their classrooms into safe havens for undocumented students and families.“We all know we can’t focus on multiplication tables right now,” said Jessica Cuellar, a member of the organization’s DACA team and an assistant principal at a California charter school. “We’re just listening to them and trying to make them feel safe.”Carlos Rodriguez, an eighth-grade teacher in Chicago, has used his experience to teach his students lessons of survival.He remembers coming to the United States at age 7 with his sister and a dozen other people, traveling through cities and towns, past wire fences and a huge river. He remembers the “flying monster in the air” that he later learned was a helicopter, and the dark place whose door would not open, which he later learned was a train.“We educators, we are in the trenches,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “We see these young people on a daily basis. We see the potential that we can maximize to benefit a country that they call their country. What are we waiting for?”See More »Go to Home Page »Before reading the article:What do you know about DACA? Who are the Dreamers? What have you heard in the news, in school or elsewhere about these young immigrants? What questions do you have?Then, watch this short Times video below.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.What is your reaction? What did you learn?Finally, tell us more about what you think:What do you think is most at stake as lawmakers debate a resolution about DACA? Why did you answer the way you did?Do you have suggestions for lawmakers? If so, what are they, and why?See More »Go to Home Page »More than 900 young immigrants applying for a renewal of temporary work permits had their applications rejected because of mail problems, a number far greater than immigration lawyers had thought earlier this month.The immigrants were trying to renew their work permits under the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which allowed nearly 800,000 immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children to work and go to school in the United States without fear of deportation.Citizenship and Immigration Services said it was in the process of sending letters to 900 people it had identified whose applications had arrived at the post office on time but not been officially received by the agency until after the deadline. Once applicants receive that letter, they will have 33 days to resubmit their applications, the immigration agency said.The agency said that there could be more people affected and that it was working with the United States Postal Service to determine how many applications were delayed by problems there. At least 4,000 renewals were rejected because they were late, according to a government official in an Oct. 18 deposition in a federal lawsuit over the cancellation of DACA.The information that U.S.C.I.S. released on Thursday still left questions unanswered; the agency said it would soon provide “specific guidance” on the steps DACA recipients must take to resubmit their renewal requests.What the government did provide, however, was small comfort for some people whose DACA permits have expired or are expiring soon, and lawyers questioned the government’s lack of expediency.The government said those DACA recipients would not be able to work until their permits were officially renewed. But, the agency added, they would not be a priority for deportation.“We’ve lost two months now,” said Hasan Shafiqullah, director of the immigration unit of the Legal Aid Society in New York. That immediately affected one of his clients, whose DACA permit expires Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“What will U.S.C.I.S. do to mitigate that harm and cost to her?” he asked. “The least they can do is expedite the adjudication of the renewal, so she can get her work permit as fast as possible.”U.S.C.I.S. said that applicants who believed their renewal had been rejected because of mail problems could contact someone in the support department, via email. But that does not appear to promise quicker action.Mr. Shafiqullah said he emailed the agency on Nov. 8 and, 22 days later, received an email response that began: “Thank you for contacting Lockbox Support and I apologize for the delay in our response to your inquiry.”There are three Citizenship and Immigration Services locations, known as lockboxes, where agency mail is delivered: in Phoenix, Chicago and Lewisville, Tex., a suburb of Dallas. All three were affected by mail problems, according to immigration activists, but Chicago had the most applications delayed.Three weeks ago, lawyers and lawmakers said they initially knew of 74 people in New York and Chicago whose renewals were delayed by mail problems. The United States Postal Service took the blame, but at the time, the immigration agency remained firm in its policy: It would still reject those applications.On Thursday, U.S.C.I.S. said that approximately 450 applications had been delayed in the mail in Texas, 390 in Chicago and 60 in Phoenix.Immigration advocates said the government opened itself to problems by providing a short window for renewal after the Trump administration said it was ending DACA. They gave those eligible to apply for renewals just one month to get their applications in. And departing from typical immigration application guidelines, the DACA renewals had to be received by the immigration agency by the Oct. 5 deadline, not postmarked.Many applicants sent their applications in three weeks in advance — by certified mail — and were still caught in the mail delays. Lawyers do not intend to take any chances this time. “We’re doing FedEx,” Mr. Shafiqullah said.Go to Home Page »After uproar around the world over his vulgar remarks on immigration, President Trump declared on Sunday that he is “not a racist,” and blamed Democrats for the legislative failure to protect young undocumented immigrants.WASHINGTON — After three days of denunciations from around the world, President Trump declared that he is “not a racist” on Sunday, even as the uproar over his vulgar remarks on immigration overshadowed critical issues facing the capital, including efforts to protect young undocumented immigrants and avert a government shutdown.Mr. Trump also insisted that he had not made the inflammatory comments in a White House meeting on Thursday, part of a newly aggressive defense and a counterattack on Democrats by the president and his allies. But his remarks on Sunday were a departure from the White House’s initial statement last week, which did not deny the comments.“I’m not a racist,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday night as he arrived at Trump International Golf Club in Florida for dinner with Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the majority leader, who attended the meeting last week and has not spoken publicly about it. “I am the least racist person you have ever interviewed, that I can tell you.”His comments, while extraordinary coming from a president of the United States, echoed reassurances Mr. Trump has made several times before.The senator, David Perdue of Georgia, also accused another participant in the White House meeting, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, of a “gross misrepresentation” of what the president had said at the session.Mr. Perdue and another Republican senator at the meeting, Tom Cotton of Arkansas, had previously said they did “not recall the president saying these comments specifically.” But by Sunday, their recollections appeared to have sharpened, and Mr. Cotton joined Mr. Perdue in disputing Mr. Durbin’s account. The two senators’ latest assertions also seemed to conflict with the account of another Republican senator who was at the meeting, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.Mr. Trump alluded to those two senators on Sunday night when asked about his immigration remarks. “Did you see what various senators in the room said about my comments?” the president asked. “They weren’t made.”The rift over Mr. Trump’s comments, and how they have since been recounted, risked further eroding trust between Democrats and Republicans at the beginning of a critical week for Congress. Government funding is set to expire on Friday, and lawmakers will need to pass a stopgap spending measure to avoid a government shutdown on Saturday.Reports of the president’s comments prompted outcry from some lawmakers, but they were followed by notable silence from others.And lawmakers are already facing a difficult fight over the politically volatile subject of immigration, with the fates of hundreds of thousands of young immigrants hanging in the balance. Adding to the uncertain picture for those immigrants, the Trump administration resumed accepting renewals for the program over the weekend, under orders from a federal judge who is hearing a legal challenge to Mr. Trump’s dismantling of the program.But in Congress, the battle took on an increasingly personal dimension as Mr. Perdue and Mr. Cotton essentially accused Mr. Durbin of lying about the president’s comments, even after the vulgar remarks were widely reported and the White House did not immediately dispute that the president had made them.“I didn’t hear that word either,” Mr. Cotton said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “And I was sitting no further away from Donald Trump than Dick Durbin was.”Mr. Cotton said Mr. Durbin “has a history of misrepresenting what happens in White House meetings,” an assertion that Mr. Perdue made in his own interview Sunday morning on ABC’s “This Week.”Ben Marter, a spokesman for Mr. Durbin, responded by suggesting that Mr. Perdue and Mr. Cotton should not be believed.Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who is part of a bipartisan group of senators that has developed an immigration proposal, said on Sunday that people in the room with Mr. Trump during Thursday’s meeting told him that the president had used the inflammatory language.“I was in a meeting directly afterwards where those who had presented to the president our proposal spoke about the meeting,” he said on “This Week.” “I heard that account before the account even went public.”President Trump’s approval rating fell across many demographic groups over his first year in office, including among those seen as important to his base.The other lawmakers at the meeting, all Republicans, have not offered any public recollection of what the president said.The Homeland Security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, who also attended the meeting, said on “Fox News Sunday” that she did not recall the president “saying that exact phrase.”The Obama-era program shields from deportation young immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children, known as Dreamers. Saying that President Barack Obama had exceeded his authority when he created the program, Mr. Trump moved to end it in September.He gave Congress six months to find a fix for the program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.Democrats have been pushing to secure a deal by Friday’s government funding deadline that would protect Dreamers, hoping to capitalize on the leverage they have as a result of that deadline. Democratic votes will be needed to pass the stopgap spending measure in the Senate, where government funding measures require 60 votes, and Democratic votes might also be needed in the House.Republican leaders say they want to address DACA as well, but separately from funding the government. Compared with their Democratic counterparts, Republican leaders are operating on a longer time frame for taking action, given the six-month window that Mr. Trump gave Congress. They also have to contend with internal divisions over immigration policy.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The bipartisan group of senators, including Mr. Durbin and Mr. Graham, reached an agreement last week that would provide a path to citizenship for DACA recipients while also providing money for border security and making other changes to immigration policy.“We’re ready, willing and able to make a deal on DACA, but I don’t think the Democrats want to make a deal,” Mr. Trump said. “And the folks from DACA should know the Democrats are the ones that aren’t going to make a deal.”But administration officials hope the judge’s decision will be temporary. Officials said the president’s lawyers are examining whether to appeal the order, which could lead to a ruling allowing the administration to shut the program down again. The administration could also choose to modify its legal reasoning to satisfy the judge’s criticisms.Either way, immigrant rights activists are not counting on legal action to be the ultimate protection for the Dreamers. Several said they believe the only real solution for the hundreds of thousands of young immigrants is to convince Congress to act soon.The court ruling could lessen the pressure for that kind of action — at least in the short term — since some young immigrants can once again renew their protected status for another two years.Lawyers and directors of community legal services spent Sunday preparing fact sheets and answering calls that have been flooding their offices.Most of the calls that Hasan Shafiqullah, the director of the immigration unit of the Legal Aid Society of New York, said he has been receiving started with the burning questions “Is this real? Can I file?”The answer, for now, he said, is yes. But he is concerned for his clients about another turnabout in the courts.“It’s just the emotional roller coaster that our clients are on,” he said.Thomas Kaplan and Noah Weiland reported from Washington, and Michael D. Shear from Palm Beach, Fla. Liz Robbins contributed reporting from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump called the United States courts system “broken and unfair” on Wednesday, the morning after a federal judge’s ruling that ordered the administration to restart a program that shields young, undocumented immigrants from deportation.It just shows everyone how broken and unfair our Court System is when the opposing side in a case (such as DACA) always runs to the 9th Circuit and almost always wins before being reversed by higher courts.Ms. Sanders said the fate of the program should be addressed by Congress.“President Trump is committed to the rule of law, and will work with members of both parties to reach a permanent solution that corrects the unconstitutional actions taken by the last administration,” Ms. Sanders said.Go to Home Page »But on Wednesday, the agency reversed its position. In light of the delays, it agreed to allow those rejected because of mail delays to resubmit their renewals for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.The Department of Homeland Security’s acting director, Elaine C. Duke, told the immigration agency to allow applicants to resubmit their paperwork if they have proof that they mailed their renewal in a timely manner and that the reason it missed the Oct. 5 deadline was because of Postal Service delays. Homeland Security issued the guideline in a statement Wednesday night.Immigration advocates and elected officials were pleased with the turnabout. “We’re glad to see U.S.C.I.S. do the right thing by accepting these applications,” said Camille Mackler, the director of legal immigration policy at the New York Immigration Coalition, an immigrant advocacy group. “This news will come as a huge relief to DACA recipients who had been living with enormous anxiety for weeks now.”In New York, lawyers reported that 18 out of 34 applications had actually arrived at the Chicago location on Oct. 5, according to postal receipts, and yet they were not accepted by the immigration agency until the next day.The Department of Homeland Security acknowledged this in a statement on Wednesday:“In addition, U.S.C.I.S. had discovered certain cases in which the DACA requests were received at the designated filing location (e.g., at the applicable P.O. Box) by the filing deadline, but were rejected. U.S.C.I.S. will proactively reach out to those DACA requesters.”Officials from the immigration agency said they were still investigating the cause and location of the problems. Details about the date of the deadline to resubmit applications would be forthcoming, the agency said.The deadline led to a frenzy of 132,000 applications, according to the immigration agency. At least 4,000 renewals were rejected because they were late, according to a government official in an Oct. 18 deposition in a federal lawsuit over the cancellation of DACA.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was not clear how many of those 4,000 were rejected because of mail delivery issues, and if that number had increased since Oct. 18.But as of Wednesday, the number of DACA renewal applicants who had been rejected because of mail delays had increased to at least 115, according to lawyers and lawmakers, including cases in Texas, Wisconsin, Washington State, North Carolina and Michigan.On Thursday, senators and members of the House of Representatives who sent letters of protest to the Department of Homeland Security this week applauded the agency’s reversal.There are three Citizenship and Immigration Services intake locations, known as lockboxes, in the United States: in Phoenix, Chicago and Lewisville, Tex., a suburb of Dallas. All three were affected by mail problems, according to immigration advocates, but Chicago had the most applications delayed.The lockboxes are managed by the Treasury Department, because checks are included in the applications, but a courier service picks up the mail and delivers it to immigration agency. Most immigration applications require that they be postmarked by a certain date, rather than received by that date. But the recent DACA renewal departed from that policy.“We are pleased to see the government has changed its position,” said Emily Villano, a Yale Law School student involved in the case, but she said that “significant uncertainty” remains.Stephen M. Pezzi, a trial lawyer in the civil division of the Justice Department, said that officials hoped to resolve the issues facing “all or nearly all” of the immigrants whose applications were denied because of mail delays.DACA recipients celebrated the reversal with gratitude. In New York, a husband and wife had their applications sent on Sept. 26, along with 13 other renewals from the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, an advocacy organization.All of those renewals were accepted by the immigration agency on Oct. 1, except for one, which arrived on Oct. 6. It belonged to Simrri Juarez, 27, a television programmer. His wife, Hortencia, 27, had her application accepted weeks earlier.“Wow, I’m speechless,” Mr. Juarez said Wednesday night. “Since I’m the one that provides the most for this house, it’s a big relief. I’m going to be able to keep this job and not fear what I’m going to do.”Alan Feuer contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »But Democrats and Republicans remain divided over the shape and scope of the package — and especially over Mr. Trump’s proposal to build a wall at the Mexican border.“I think we’re narrowing the differences,” Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said Thursday, after a group of Republican senators met at the White House with Mr. Trump. The president has invited members of both parties to meet with him to discuss immigration next week.“Obama couldn’t do it. Bush couldn’t do it. I think you can do it,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, told Mr. Trump at the meeting. “There’s a bill to be had. If you want it bad enough, we’ll get it and it will be good for the country. Everybody has got to give a little bit.”But there are questions about how broad, or narrow, the measure should be. Democrats want to shield young immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children from deportation and offer them a path to citizenship, and could accept what they call “reasonable border security” provisions, such as electronic surveillance, including drones and drug detection equipment, and rebuilding roads across the border.Mr. Trump and Republicans would like to expand the measure so that it sharply limits what he calls “chain migration,” the longstanding policy that allows one family member to sponsor another to come to the United States, and ends the so-called visa lottery, which aims to diversify the immigrant population by selecting applicants randomly from countries with low rates of immigration. Mr. Trump called the lottery “a disaster.”“We must BUILD THE WALL, stop illegal immigration, end chain migration & cancel the visa lottery,” he said. “The current system is unsafe & unfair to the great people of our country — time for change!”The president also used Thursday’s meeting to reiterate his demand for a border wall.“We need a physical border wall,” he said. “We’re going to have a wall — remember that — we’re going to have a wall to keep out deadly drug dealers, dangerous traffickers and violent criminal cartels. Mexico is having a tremendous problem with crime, and we want to keep it out of our country.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, there appears to be some confusion about what, precisely, the president wants. After Thursday’s meeting, Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, said Mr. Trump was not insisting on a massive physical wall.“People want to paint his definition, that it’s some 2,000-mile-long, 30-foot-high wall of concrete,” Mr. Lankford said. “That’s not what he means, and that’s not what he’s trying to say.”The senator continued: “There’s going to be border fencing in some areas, there’s going to be vehicular barricades, there’s going to be technology, greater manpower in some areas. Different parts, whether they’re mountainous or whether they’re open deserts, need different solutions.”Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who also attended Thursday’s meeting, said Wednesday that he expected a “very good compromise” to be ready by the end of the month, and that it would have a mix of border security provisions.“I hate to use the word ‘wall,’ because that implies you might want a steel wall for 2,000 miles,” said Mr. Grassley, who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over immigration. “We want border security. Sometimes it’s wall, sometimes it’s more border personnel. I t might be electronic surveillance, drones. The idea is that people come to this country with papers.”An estimated 780,000 immigrants were covered under the Obama-era program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. Participants were required to register with the government and pass background checks, in exchange for two-year renewable permits that allowed them to work or attend school.Immigration advocates say 14,000 of them have already lost their protected status because they have been unable to renew permits issued more than two years ago.“This is a crisis created by Donald Trump himself,” said Greisa Martinez Rosas, 29, who has a permit under the program and now works for United We Dream, an advocacy group. “He is now using my life and the lives of immigrants of United We Dream as ransom to move forward his anti-immigrant agenda.”On Capitol Hill, five senators — three Republicans and two Democrats — have been meeting nearly every day for the past two months in an attempt to come up with an immigration agreement. Senator Richard J. Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, who is leading the talks, was tight-lipped about the group’s progress, saying only, “We’re continuing to meet.”But one person familiar with the discussions said the talks could not conclude until Mr. Trump made his wishes clear. Mr. Lankford said he hoped Mr. Trump would put a proposal in writing before next week’s bipartisan meeting at the White House.See More »Go to Home Page »Dozens of young immigrants mailed renewal forms weeks before they were due. But their paperwork was delayed in the mail and then denied for being late.The paperwork was mailed from New York in plenty of time. On Sept. 14, Allison Baker, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society, sent a client’s application to renew a permit that would let him stay and work in the United States legally as part of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — long before the Oct. 5 deadline. It was sent certified mail to be safe.Then the packet started circling Chicago in a mysterious holding pattern. From Sept. 17 to Sept. 19, it was “in transit to destination.” Then its tracking whereabouts disappeared until Oct. 4. Once again, it was “on its way.”On Oct. 6, a day too late, it was delivered. And the application, for a 24-year-old man who asked to be identified only as José because his legal status was uncertain, was rejected.José was not alone. According to lawyers from across the New York region, in at least 33 other cases, unusually long Postal Service delays resulted in rejections of DACA applications, throwing the lives of their clients into frantic limbo. Lawyers in Boston and Philadelphia, which also send their applications to the Chicago processing center, say they have not seen evidence of an issue with the mail.But in Chicago, in the backyard of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency, there were at least 41 DACA recipients whose renewals, sent well before the deadline, arrived late, advocates said. According to Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, an applicant sent a renewal on Sept. 13 and it arrived on Oct. 6. Another sent the paperwork on Sept. 21, and it was received on Oct. 9. “Because somebody else did not do their job correctly we are taking innocent young immigrants and making them deportable,” said Mr. Gutiérrez in a statement. “That is unacceptable.”On Thursday, in a rare admission from a federal agency, the U.S. Postal Service took the blame. David A. Partenheimer, a spokesman for the post office, said there had been an “unintentional temporary mail processing delay in the Chicago area.”But the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency said nothing more could be done; the decisions were final.“According to U.S.C.I.S. regulations, a request is considered received by U.S.C.I.S. as of the actual date of receipt at the location for filing such request,” Steve Blando, a spokesman for the agency, wrote in a statement. He added: “U.S.C.I.S. is not responsible for the mail service an individual chooses, or for delays on the part of mail service providers.”He later added, though, that “U.S.C.I.S. is committed to working with the U.S.P.S. to understand and address the U.S.P.S. error that occurred that delayed the mail.”Because DACA is an executive order, signed by President Barack Obama in 2012, and not a statute, applicants cannot appeal the decision. Still, immigrants and their advocates viewed the agency’s unwillingness to revisit their applications as harsh and unfair.The DACA program had offered temporary protection and work permits for about 800,000 young adults who had been brought to the United States illegally as children.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.There are three U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services intake locations, known as lockboxes, in the United States: in Phoenix, Chicago and Lewisville, Tex., a suburb of Dallas.According to the immigration agency, its employees do not pick up the mail from the lockbox. The United States Department of the Treasury manages the process but uses a courier service that picks up the mail from post offices each morning. Express Mail items, the agency said, are picked up in the afternoon. Also, items are delivered to the lockbox by the courier services FedEx, DHL and the United Parcel Service.In a memo after DACA was rescinded, the Department of Homeland Security said renewals had to be “accepted” by Oct. 5. Immigration lawyers contrasted that with a permanent residency opportunity the government offered in 2001, when applications only had to be postmarked by the deadline of April 30. Acknowledging the high volume of applications, the government offered a grace period for paperwork to be received by May 3.Immigration lawyers questioned why that was not an option in this case.Hasan Shafiqullah, director of the immigration unit of the Legal Aid Society in New York, was disturbed by the lack of compassion from the agency.“From the clients’ perspective, they did the right thing,” Mr. Shafiqullah said. “Filing three weeks before should be sufficient, and U.S.C.I.S. needs to recognize that and needs to exercise discretion.”She had installed two apps on her phone to track her application in the mail, but she became anguished when they showed her envelope had arrived in Chicago on Oct. 1 but seemed to stall there. She called every supervisor she could in the Chicago post office.“It doesn’t make any sense, I mail stuff all the time,” Ms. Camara said. “I can understand one day of delay. Two days at most. But you can’t even tell me where it is?”According to the tracking record, her application arrived “at the unit” on Oct. 5, but was not actually delivered until Oct. 6.She said she made an appointment to discuss the application with an immigration official next week. Five lawyers in New York said they had already received denials from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency when pleading their case — via email, an 800-number and in person.The older brother’s application was in transit for three weeks; it did not arrive at the regional facility in Chicago until Oct. 3. At that point, Ms. Bennett-Rodriguez raced to find a solution.When it still had not arrived, hours before the deadline, she said that her client offered to fly from La Guardia Airport to Chicago to hand-deliver his application. But she learned there was no physical address listed for where he would go.The post office tracking information showed his application arrived on Oct. 6.“It was probably my worst day as an attorney,” Ms. Bennett-Rodriguez said. “I knew the importance and I knew we filed with enough time.”Mr. Partenheimer, the post office spokesman, said the processing “issue has been resolved and we are investigating how it occurred.” He added that the mail service would “work diligently” with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency “concerning any potential issues this may cause for the affected individuals.”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to a deposition in a federal lawsuit. It was not conducted by the immigration advocacy group Make the Road and did not include the number of applications received on time.See More »Go to Home Page »Good evening. Here’s the latest.President Trump ordered the program shut down last year, but two federal court orders have maintained major parts of it._____The issue is whether government workers’ right to free speech is violated when they are required to pay dues to the unions that negotiate on their behalf. Above, a pro-labor demonstration.Justice Neil Gorsuch generally votes with the court’s conservatives, who have been edging toward such a ruling. But he was silent during the arguments, offering no clues as to his thinking._______________Since President Trump wants to rip up the 2015 agreement, they’re trying to come up with a successor bargain to halt Iran’s ballistic missile program and permanently restrict its ability to produce nuclear fuel.But Tehran doesn’t want to reopen the pact, and any new deal would risk being rejected by Mr. Trump. Above, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson._____Commonalities: eased traffic, lowered pollution. Obstacles: outrage and skepticism from commuters and civic and business leaders._____Justice Department lawyers argued that a sky-diving school was within the law when it fired the instructor above, Donald Zarda, after he reassured a female student being strapped to him that he was “100 percent gay.”Lawyers for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission argued that the firing violated the part of the 1964 Civil Rights Act barring workplace discrimination based on “race, color, religion, sex or national origin.”_____They said Mr. Goodell would declare that Mr. Jones, above, had taken actions detrimental to the league, including outspokenly defending a player suspended after domestic-abuse allegations — and trying to derail negotiations to renew Mr. Goodell’s contract._____Those increasingly long trips from islands near Antarctica are endangering hungry offspring.“They will need to either move somewhere else or they will just disappear,” one of the study’s authors said._____One mystery that will remain: the identity of the real-life girl, if there even was one.Have a great night._____Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.See More »Go to Home Page »The Justice Department filed a motion on Friday asking a federal judge in Brooklyn to throw out two linked lawsuits that seek to preserve an Obama-era policy protecting young undocumented immigrants, claiming that the government has “absolute discretion” to end the program “for any reason or no reason” and “with or without notice.”In its motion to dismiss the cases, the Justice Department said that because DACA was an executive action put in place without the force of legislation, Trump officials not only have the power to rescind it, but also that their decision was “presumed immune from judicial review.” The executive branch, the motion added, has a “particularly unfettered” power when it comes to immigration.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The motion filed on Friday said that DAPA’s demise left the White House with two choices concerning DACA: It could undertake an “orderly process” to end DACA slowly, or roll it back abruptly “plunging its nearly 800,000 recipients into uncertainty.”According to the motion, the government chose “the less disruptive option”— a point it made to counter the plaintiffs’ argument that ending DACA was arbitrary.The plaintiffs have claimed that repealing DACA broke the Administrative Procedure Act, which holds that government policies can be ended only with a rational explanation; the Justice Department argued that an orderly repeal of DACA was itself rational.The department also said that even though the plaintiffs have claimed that rolling back DACA was discriminatory, they had, at least so far, offered no evidence to prove it. The motion went on to attack the argument that the Dreamers had not been given notice that DACA was ending by claiming that the program was never designed to grant them “due process protections” in the first place.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court indicated on Wednesday that federal courts in California had moved too fast in ordering the Trump administration to disclose documents concerning its decision to end a program that protected some 800,000 young, undocumented immigrants from deportation.“Either of those arguments, if accepted, likely would eliminate the need for the district court to examine a complete administrative record,” the Supreme Court’s opinion said. Should the courts reject those arguments, the opinion said, they should nonetheless consider requiring fewer documents to be produced and allow the administration to present arguments about whether particular documents are privileged.The dispute arose in five consolidated lawsuits in California that accused administration officials of acting unlawfully when they abruptly rescinded the program. The plaintiffs include four states: California, Maine, Maryland and Minnesota.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In its opinion on Wednesday, the Supreme Court noted that the administration had produced just 256 pages of documents, of which “nearly 200 pages consist of published opinions from various federal courts.” In setting aside the Ninth Circuit’s ruling, the Supreme Court said it was not expressing any views on the merits of the dispute.Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorDuring the nearly five years that I was secretary of defense, 2,621 immigrants serving in the United States military became naturalized citizens while deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan. More than 100 immigrant troops have made the supreme sacrifice in combat during those wars. In that same period, from 2006 to 2011, a total of 45,700 immigrants who wore the uniform of the American military all across the world became American citizens.I was honored to serve alongside all of them, and humbled by their sense of duty, by their willingness to risk life and limb for a country they yearned to call their own.I attended a number of naturalization ceremonies for these soldiers, Marines, airmen and sailors. At one ceremony, in October 2008 at Fort Bragg, N.C., 41 immigrant service members, men and women from 26 countries, became citizens. I told them it was one of the true glories of our country that when it comes to being an American, you don’t have to be a descendant of the founders or the colonists who came on the Mayflower. What counts is whether you believe in America’s ideals, follow its laws and pitch in for the common good.Quoting Abraham Lincoln, I said that immigrants can read the phrase “all men are created equal” in the Declaration of Independence and feel that “they have a right to claim it as though they were blood of the blood, and flesh of the flesh, of the men who wrote that Declaration.”The United States faces extraordinary security challenges that are placing growing pressure on our armed forces. Those forces are stronger when they embody the nation’s diversity, drawing from a large pool of willing young people able to adapt to changing threats. That is why we need legislation that will provide a pathway to citizenship for those immigrants who, among other attributes, are serving or have served in the military, whether they are in America legally or were brought here illegally as children. That kind of policy will help the military recruit new service members and improve readiness.More than 800 so-called Dreamers who received temporary authorization to stay and work in the United States under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, recently revoked by President Trump, are now serving in the armed forces. They are able to serve because of a program I authorized in 2008 aimed at recruiting immigrants with medical, foreign language or other specialized skills. The program was extended when we found that these recruits had lower attrition rates than other recruits and, in particular, contributed invaluable language skills to Special Operations units. More than 350 additional DACA recipients have signed contracts with the Army and are awaiting basic training. If Congress fails to act, these recruits’ permits will expire. They will not be eligible to serve and will instead be at risk of deportation.Being an American is more than just passing an exam about United States history and the Constitution. It is more than one’s knowledge and beliefs. Being an American is also about a willingness to put oneself in harm’s way to defend the country. It is about honor and duty. As we observe Veterans Day, we remember with reverence the extraordinary debt we owe to those who have served in uniform and sacrificed, even unto death, for their fellow Americans. This includes the more than 109,000 immigrants who, since Sept. 11, 2001, have become citizens while wearing the uniform of the United States military. They have been part of a rarefied group: the 1 percent of Americans — native-born, naturalized and undocumented immigrants alike — who constitute our military.All of those undocumented immigrants, through their willingness to shed blood to protect the rest of us, have earned the right to call themselves “American citizen.” Let us honor them this Veterans Day. But let’s also give them a pathway to citizenship. Our military will be the better for it. So will the country.Robert M. Gates, the chancellor of the College of William & Mary, was secretary of defense for Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSDefenders of President Trump’s decision to rescind an Obama-era immigration policy that shielded young immigrants from deportation have offered misleading critiques of the program.They say the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, known as DACA, led to a humanitarian crisis on the border, put native-born Americans out of work and conferred legal status to recipients. Here’s an assessment.While immigration law bars people who overstayed their visa from returning to the United States for three or 10 years, depending on how long they have resided here unlawfully, DACA halts recipients’ accrual of “unlawful presence.” So someone who obtained DACA status before the re-entry penalty was triggered would remain protected from it.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While it’s certainly possible that there are individual cases of an employer hiring a DACA recipient instead of an American citizen, the claim of a widespread trend is unproved.Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that trends in foreign-born and native-born unemployment rates have not changed with DACA. For example, the unemployment rate for natives who had attended college was lower than their foreign-born peers both before and after 2012, while the unemployment rate for natives without a high school diploma has consistently been higher than the foreign-born population.Immigration lawyers say it’s too early to tell whether DACA recipients, who had to provide personal information to officials to apply for the status, will especially be at risk after Mr. Trump’s order. Previously, their information was “protected from disclosure” to Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection for the purpose of enforcement. The order, however, notes that information “will not be proactively provided to ICE and CBP,” and the president has said that former recipients would not be a priority for deportation.“It’s very unclear to me whether U.S.C.I.S. will share that information if ICE affirmatively asks,” said Kate Voigt of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, referring to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. It is clear, though, that Mr. Trump’s order rescinding DACA opens recipients up to deportation.See More »Go to Home Page »The vote was 5 to 4. Justice Stephen G. Breyer, writing for the court’s four-member liberal wing, issued a 10-page dissent.The dispute over the documents arose in five consolidated lawsuits in California that accused administration officials of acting unlawfully when they abruptly rescinded the program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. The plaintiffs include four states — California, Maine, Maryland and Minnesota — and Janet Napolitano, the president of the University of California. As secretary of homeland security in the Obama administration, Ms. Napolitano signed the document that established the program in 2012.“We are not unmindful of the separation-of-powers concerns raised by the government,” the judges wrote. “However, the narrow question presented here simply does not implicate those concerns.”“I understand why the district court ordered the Department of Homeland Security to provide a more fulsome administrative record,” he wrote. “The agency’s decision to rescind DACA will profoundly disrupt the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, and a policy shift of that magnitude presumably would not have been made without extensive study and analysis beforehand.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“But the desire for greater insight into how D.H.S. arrived at its decision is not a legitimate basis for ordering the agency to expand the administrative record, unless the plaintiffs make a threshold factual showing justifying such action,” Judge Watford wrote.Judge Alsup also urged the justices not to interfere with other aspects of the case even if they allowed the government to withhold the documents. The program is set to end in March, he said, requiring a prompt decision.In his dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that it was very unusual for the Supreme Court to become involved in disputes over the production of documents.“The court today abandons its practice of nonintervention in this kind of discovery-related dispute,” he wrote. “In addition to disrupting the progress of this litigation, I fear that the court’s decision to intervene here means we will be asked to address run-of-the-mill discovery disputes in many other matters, certainly when the government is involved and potentially when it is not involved.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent, which also questioned the government’s contention that producing the requested documents would impose a crushing burden.“The government complains that it must review 21,000 documents as potentially part of the administrative record,” Justice Breyer wrote. “But the underlying agency action here is important, and that is by no means an unusually large number of documents; administrative records often contain hundreds of thousands of documents.”Justice Breyer wrote that there was good reason for Judge Alsup to review and to consider the requested documents.“Effective review,” Justice Breyer wrote, “depends upon the administrative record containing all relevant materials presented to the agency, including not only materials supportive of the government’s decision but also materials contrary to the government’s decision.”See More »Go to Home Page »But if the Washington deal-making drags on too long, it could be disrupted by a different force: a federal judge in Brooklyn who has sternly warned that should policy makers prove unable to repair the program, commonly known as DACA, he might have to do it.In recent weeks, the judge, Nicholas G. Garaufis, has made a series of unusually forceful statements from the bench, calling the Trump administration’s approach to fixing DACA “cruel,” “heartless” and “unacceptable.” He has also offered praise for the 800,000 young immigrants who were shielded by the program, lauding them as people who pay rent, taxes and mortgages, and who “support their communities.”Judge Garaufis has acknowledged that he is unlikely to decide on the merits of the lawsuits until early next year. And he may find that the United States Appeals Court for the Second Circuit does not take kindly to his rhetoric or eventual decision.But even though the case has only started moving forward, he and Magistrate Judge James Orenstein, a junior judge who is assisting him, have already hinted that they support the plaintiffs. The two jurists, who are working together to complete the case before March 5, when deportations could begin, have repeatedly taken to task — and even berated — the lawyers from the Justice Department who are arguing on the government’s behalf.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The DACA case has now entered its discovery phase. And on Wednesday, against the wishes of the government, Judge Orenstein ruled at another hearing that the plaintiffs could take depositions from two administration officials: Donald Neufeld, an associate director in the United States Citizenship and Immigrations Services, and Gene Hamilton, the deputy chief of staff for policy at the Department of Homeland Security.In making his ruling, Judge Orenstein, like Judge Garaufis, had harsh words for the government lawyers, chiding them for writing poor briefs and for showing up in court unprepared.On Wednesday, his target was Stephen M. Pezzi, a Justice Department trial lawyer, who has on occasion been unable to answer direct questions from the bench, saying that he first had to consult with officials in Washington. In a remarkably firm move, Judge Orenstein raised concerns that Mr. Pezzi and his colleagues might, through their delays, be engaging in a “calculated filibuster to avoid judicial review.” Clearly annoyed, he warned them not to do so.“I don’t attribute this to bad faith at this point,” Judge Orenstein said, “but the record is building in a way that supports that inference.”Go to Home Page »The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and left that you might not have seen.“As frustrating as that may be to those who want to see DACA totally wiped off the books, and every one of its beneficiaries given a one-way bus ticket across the border, letting Congress decide what to do about the ‘Dreamers’ is exactly what ought to happen.”_____“While in principle I support DACA, I do not believe the President has the power to enact it without legislation.”_____“Trump should do what he should have done his first day in office. He should declare the Obama-administration guidance null and void.”_____“Trump will take a lot flack for ending DACA, and he’ll deserve it. But the truth is that Republican politicians forced his hand. Republican xenophobia predates Trump, and it’ll outlive him, too.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters._____“Ending DACA is not a principled standard about the separation of powers. Rescinding DACA either caters to a base that wants the United States to be unthinkably cruel to immigrants, or fulfills officials’ desire to force immigrants into hopeless, difficult situations.”_____“The right approach is to just leave the program alone, acknowledging that it works and that 800,000 people should not be cast into exile or used as pawns in a political chess match.”_____“For months, some pro-immigrant groups have warned against sending in new applications for the program, saying that the detailed information given to confirm eligibility could be used to deport enrollees or family members in the future.”_____“President Trump, cornered, weakened, and apparently unable to get his hands on the usual levers of presidential powers, has adopted pretty much the worst possible strategy for someone trying to wield the power of the most powerful job in the world: He’s shooting the hostages.”(We previously listed Mr. Smith in this article under the left section, but he took issue with that categorization.)_____See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byWhat is it, really, that makes a country great?Surely not size. Russia has 56 times the territory and more than twice the population of Italy. Yet Italy’s economy, troubled as it is, is 44 percent larger than Russia’s.Nor is it sheer scale. China’s G.D.P. may eventually outstrip America’s. But per capita Chinese G.D.P. is lower than Mexico’s, making it a rich country of relatively poor people.A better measure of national greatness is the ability of nations to cultivate, attract and retain human capital. People tend to vote with their feet. To trace the rise or decline of nations is to watch where those feet go — and where they leave.Take Hungary. Since 1960, seven Hungarians have won the Nobel Prize. Not bad for a small country — except that all of them left Hungary to make their lives and careers elsewhere.The United States provides the opposite example. The American economy is 12 percent larger today than it was at the time of the financial crisis. We’re also taking in roughly half a million legal new arrivals a year. The foot-voting continues, and we’re still coming out on top.A common American conceit is that we attract brilliant foreigners because we have brilliant things: great universities, vast financial resources, a dynamic economy, high-tech. That gets things mostly backward. It’s because we have brilliant foreigners that we have those things in the first place. Google. Comcast. eBay. Kraft. Pfizer. AT&T. They all had immigrants as founders.Opponents of a liberal immigration policy often insist they welcome legal immigrants and only object to illegal ones. Rubbish. The immigration reform bill introduced in Congress this year by Republicans Tom Cotton and David Perdue and endorsed by Donald Trump aims to cut legal immigration by half.Restrictionists also argue that we need to favor newcomers with “skills” and educational credentials. More rubbish. Jan Koum arrived in the U.S. from Ukraine in 1992 as a 16-year-old boy with his mother, living off food stamps. She worked as a babysitter. He later dropped out of college. In 2009 he came up with an idea for a mobile messaging app. Five years later Facebook purchased WhatsApp for $22 billion.Should it make any difference to WhatsApp’s billion-plus users that Koum arrived in the United States legally? And if it turned out that he hadn’t, should he be required to leave the country, presumably so he can pay income tax — and create jobs — in his native Ukraine?That would be self-defeating. But it’s the fate that may soon await 800,000 or so young people who were brought without visas to the United States as children, grew up in the country, in some cases only speak English, and now face deportation because the Trump administration seems poised to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a program that allowed them to stay in school or their jobs.Lose that faith, and lose what’s best about America, too.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSTrump’s decision to kill DACA — never mind the attempt to obscure things with that meaningless delay — is, first and foremost, a moral obscenity: throwing out 800,000 young people who are Americans in every way that matters, who have done nothing wrong, basically for racial reasons. But it’s also worth noting that Jeff Sessions just tried to sell it with junk economics, claiming that the Dreamers are taking American jobs. No, they aren’t, even if we leave aside the question of who’s an American. DACA is very much a boon to the rest of the U.S. population, and killing it will make everyone worse off.Beyond that, DREAMers are young — which means that they help the economy in not one but two big ways, because they mitigate the economic problems caused by an aging population.One of those problems is fiscal: as the population ages, there are fewer working-age members contributing taxes to pay for Social Security and Medicare. A cohort of relatively high-wage, highly motivated people mostly in their 20s, likely to pay lots of taxes for decades, is exactly what the doctor ordered to make that issue less severe.Meanwhile, I’m one of those who worries about secular stagnation — persistently weak spending, making episodes in which monetary policy can’t achieve full employment even with zero interest rates much more likely. Several factors contribute to this risk, but probably the most important is demography: a sharp slowdown in the growth of the working-age population, which means less incentive to invest in structures, factories, and more. (The demographic issue is why Japan, with low fertility and great hostility to immigration, entered a zero-rate regime a decade before the rest of us.)And what would make secular stagnation more of a problem? Hey, let’s expel hundreds of thousands of young people from the current and future work force.So this is a double blow to the U.S. economy; it will make everyone worse off. There is no upside whatever to this cruelty, unless you just want to have fewer people with brown skin and Hispanic surnames around. Which is, of course, what this is really all about.Paul Krugman is an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times.When news leaked on Monday that President Trump had decided to dismantle Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) — the 2012 policy that granted administrative relief to some 800,000 undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as minors — some commentators tried to find a ray of hope in the dismal forecast. Trump, they noted, would give Congress six months to save the DACA-protected “Dreamers” from deportation with a legislative fix. Never mind that House Republicans sabotaged a chance to help Dreamers in 2013, when John Boehner, the House speaker, refused to hold a vote on an immigration-reform bill that had passed in the Senate to a vote on the House floor. Now, NPR reported, Republicans might favor a bill introduced by Representative Carlos Curbelo of Florida that would give Dreamers a path to citizenship. “Overwhelmingly, Republicans tell me: ‘Yes, I could support giving these young immigrants permanent status in our country,’ ” Curbelo told “All Things Considered,” “ ‘as long as we continue moving towards better border security, the enforcement of our immigration laws.’ ” Yet among the undocumented activists whom I got to know while reporting in Arizona earlier this year, such a compromise is hardly viewed with relief. Rather it is the Catch-22 that they have been dreading ever since Trump was elected.By the time Senators Bernie Sanders and Dick Durbin held a private round table with immigrant rights leaders in December 2016, the general sentiment within the movement had become: divided, we fall. Erika Andiola, the first president of the Arizona Dream Act Coalition, argued that Democrats should filibuster any legislation that targeted undocumented immigrants, even if it helped Dreamers. Greisa Martinez, the advocacy director for United We Dream, who also attended the meeting in Sanders’s office, told me: “It’s not a choice between do you protect the Dreamers or do you protect the broader community.” She continued: “We believe that our responsibility is to be able to do both things at once. One does not come at the cost of the other.”That idealistic unity may have begun to fracture 11 days ago, when leaks began suggesting that Trump might terminate DACA, a scenario that provoked terror among DACA recipients. In their DACA applications, they were required to provide the federal government with detailed information about themselves and their parents — names, addresses — in order to gain work permits, driver’s licenses and other benefits of deferred action.“Can you imagine? The government made a promise to us: come forward, come out of the shadows and we’re going to promise you that you’re not going to be in deportation proceedings,” Reyna Montoya, a Dreamer in Phoenix, told me. “But they deferred our deportation, and now we’re there in the line.” Worried that Trump might kill the program in a late-night tweet, Montoya took to setting her alarm clock for 5 a.m., so she could start each morning by checking whether her DACA protections had been destroyed.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In many cases, the stress of such uncertainty was felt not only by Dreamers but also by their families. Their fears extended beyond the nightmarish possibility of being tracked down through the information volunteered in DACA applications. Though the general public often imagines DACA recipients as college students, many of them are in fact parents or full-time employees whose relatives depend on their legal income for survival. And many undocumented family members have placed assets like cars or homes under a DACA recipient’s name, or relied on a DACA child’s Social Security number to take out loans. Even Andiola, a well-placed DACA recipient who is now the political director of Our Revolution, could lose the ability to make mortgage payments on the house that she bought for her mother, Maria Guadalupe Arreola. Arreola told me that she knows many families in the same predicament. Regardless of whether immigration agents deport the Dreamers, with DACA gone, she said, their families “will be ruined.”Carlos Garcia, executive director of the immigrant rights group Puente Arizona, views last week’s prolonged uncertainty as a calculated move, designed to splinter the undocumented community. “I think it’s sadistic,” he said. The six-month delay in implementing an end to DACA isn’t a kindness, he argued. It would function like a “ticking clock” to pressure Dreamers to accept whatever legislation Congress cobbles together — even legislation, like “Kates’s Law,” which increases penalties for migrants who try to return after deportation, or which includes funding for a border wall, a measure that would otherwise be vigorously opposed. It could also kneecap protests by other progressive activists, who might feel that they should “sit back” for the sake of 800,000 DACA recipients, regardless of what a congressional solution might mean for the lives of millions of other undocumented immigrants. The question on some parents’ minds, according to the Puente organizer Maria Castro, may be: Am I O.K. with being persecuted in order to save our child? Castro said: “I don’t think there’s an answer to that communitywide.”The stakes feel especially high after Trump’s recent pardon of Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff of Arizona’s Maricopa County. Arpaio was voted out of office in 2016 after multiple lawsuits and a Pulitzer-winning investigation by The East Valley Tribune exposed his abuse of power, corruption and neglect of basic policing. Low points in Arpaio’s tenure include the death of Deborah Braillard, who died in a diabetic coma in a Maricopa County jail after being left to lie in her own feces and vomit for 72 hours, expansive “crime suppression” sweeps of Latino neighborhoods, stalled investigations of sex crimes and attempts to intimidate two county supervisors and a sitting federal judge. Last month Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt of court for defying a federal judge’s order to stop detaining people based solely on suspicion of their immigration status. According to Politico, his pardon has bolstered the “constitutional sheriff” movement, whose members believe that county sheriffs do not need to submit to federal law. “We hear from the opposite side that we have to end DACA because it was an overreach of power,” Montoya said, “but yet you’re willing to pardon someone who stands for hate and for abuse of power.” Andiola cried with anger when she heard the news.“No greater good can be done for the overall health and well-being of our republic than preserving and strengthening the impartial rule of law,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Tuesday afternoon, as he announced the administration’s decision to rescind DACA. “Societies where the rule of law is subject to political whims and personal biases tend to become societies afflicted by corruption, poverty and human suffering.” But the close timing of Arpaio’s pardon and DACA’s termination suggests that under Trump and Sessions, the rule of law will not be impartial: It will be applied more strictly to Dreamers, who were raised as Americans, and who must now scramble for a way to regain DACA’s protections without sacrificing their own parents.Marcela Valdes is a contributing writer for the magazine.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeLast week, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that immigrants shielded from deportation by the program, which is known as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or DACA, would have until Oct. 5 to reapply for protected status. But the federal judge, Nicholas G. Garaufis, said the deadline was too soon and requested it be pushed back so that the president and Congress have time to fix the program through legislation.“The concern of the court is that Oct. 5 is three weeks away,” Judge Garaufis said at an hourlong hearing in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. “It would make a lot of sense from various vantage points to extend this deadline.”DACA has protected hundreds of thousands of children and young adults who were brought illegally to the United States by their parents. And the only ones who would be “harmed” by keeping the deadline in place, Judge Garaufis said, were the young immigrants themselves — or as he put it: “The 800,000 people who are sweating that someone will knock on their doors and send them to a country they don’t even know.”At the hearing, Judge Garaufis, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton, said that “the ultimate outcome of this case should not be heard by a court of law — it should be handled by the political branches.” But he sternly warned that if Mr. Trump and Congress were unable to reach a solution, he might be compelled to “protect” the 800,000 young immigrants who stand to be affected.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Judge Garaufis quoted the tweet as he suggested to the lawyer who argued on the government’s behalf that Mr. Trump himself apparently wanted to save DACA and should be allowed to do so without imposing a strict and arbitrary deadline. “There’s no harm, in this court’s view, in letting the legislative process play out and extending the deadline,” he said.But the federal government lawyer, Brett Shumate, a deputy assistant attorney general , said that any move by Judge Garaufis to change the deadline could be considered “interference with the executive branch’s prerogatives.”Mr. Shumate added that the government had set the deadline because some Republican state attorneys general had threatened to sue to end the program. He also said that the suit seeking to preserve DACA had “fundamental flaws.” He did not specify those flaws but promised that the government would likely file a motion to dismiss the suit.Go to Home Page »“I do not favor punishing children, most of whom are now adults, for the actions of their parents,” President Trump says, echoing language used by other Republicans. “But we must also recognize that we are a nation of opportunity because we are a nation of laws.”How the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, is being framed as a legal matter — and how the Obama administration allowed that to happen.On today’s episode:• Peter Baker, who covers the White House, takes us back to June 15, 2012, when President Obama announced an executive action that would establish a program for young immigrants who had come to the United States illegally.• We talk about the origins and significance of the program with Cecilia Muñoz, who was Mr. Obama’s chief domestic policy adviser when he signed DACA.Background reading:If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.On your iPhone or iPad:Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.On your Android phone or tablet:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”THE DAILY: Theo Balcomb, managing producer; Christopher Werth, senior producer; Annie Brown, producer; Lynsea Garrison, producer; Rachel Quester, producer; Andy Mills, producer; Sam Dolnick, contributing editor; Peter Sale, sound engineer. NYT AUDIO: Lisa Tobin, executive producer; Samantha Henig, editorial director.See More »Go to Home Page »Good morning.Today’s introduction comes from Jennifer Medina, a correspondent based in Los Angeles.Attorney General Xavier Becerra called the decision unconstitutional and said that California could file a lawsuit to keep the program alive as early as Wednesday.“We are prepared to go in tomorrow or whenever it seems appropriate to Court to make sure we stand up for those who have stood up and helped build this country and certainly California,” Mr. Becerra said during a news conference in Sacramento. “We are prepared to defend the DACA program because it is fully lawful and fully American in its value and its approach.”The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Public schools — including the Los Angeles Unified School District and the University of California — were also struggling to figure out how they would help thousands of DACA recipients and those who are eligible but have not yet received the protections.Janet Napolitano, the president of the U.C. system and the former Secretary for Homeland Security, called the move “backward-thinking” and one that would “derail the futures of some of this country’s brightest young minds, thousands of whom currently attend or have graduated from the University of California.”She said she would immediately ask her staff to figure out how to support and protect students with DACA and would continue the system’s programs that help those students.Several Republicans from the state also criticized the president’s decision. Representative David Valadao, whose Central Valley district includes nearly 50,000 DACA recipients, said he would work with his colleagues in Congress to craft a solution to replace the program.“America is the only home these young people know and I will do everything in my power to ensure those who were brought to the United States through no fault of their own are not unjustly punished.”More in The Times:(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)In the exodus from the floodwaters of Southeast Texas, untold numbers of pets were left behind.As a result, a glut of displaced animals has overwhelmed local animal rescue operations.Ric Browde, logistics coordinator for the animal charity Wings for Rescue, said the flooding portended a “bloodbath” for abandoned pets — both as a result of drowning and increasing recourse to euthanasia.Responding to a call for help, rescue organizations across the county have been taking in animals from Texas shelters to free up space for those directly affected by the disaster.So far, more than 400 animals have been transported to locations in California.Mindy Wright, a spokeswoman for center, said they would get checkups and remain under observation for a couple days. Then they’d be up for grabs.Mr. Browde, from Wings for Rescue, said he anticipates new owners won’t be hard to find.“This is not politically correct, but right now these dogs are celebrities. They’re like Kardashians, these Texas dogs,” he said.The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian — born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Los Osos.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Good morning on this wet Wednesday.Known as DACA, the program has offered temporary protection from deportation to nearly 800,000 people who were brought to the country illegally as children, allowing them to obtain work permits, be eligible for driver’s licenses and complete their schooling.It changed the lives of about 30,000 New Yorkers.Here’s a guide on what the decision means for DACA recipients going forward.Who will be affected right now?The cancellation is not immediate, but Mr. Trump called on Congress to replace the policy with legislation before it expires on March 5, 2018. Meanwhile, no new applications will be accepted. Current DACA holders have only until Oct. 5 to renew two-year permits set to expire on or before March 5.Does the Trump administration’s change mean Dreamers will be deported?What is New York’s response?Here’s what else is happening:Sunglasses are out, umbrellas are in.At least for the next day or so, when showers and possibly a thunderstorm dampen our streets.The rain clouds should break up around lunchtime tomorrow, after which you can expect mostly sunny skies and temperatures in the 70s for the rest of the week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was a rowdy affair.As women addressed the meeting of about 300 to 400 people, men in the crowd laughed and hissed.But that was to be expected.Ms. C.C. Burleigh of Connecticut, who spoke through the laughter, said they had anticipated “just that kind of opposition which they had met; that men of mind not sufficiently large to grasp the great principle, would meet it with ridicule, and by the use of low slang.”In New York, the women’s rights proponents tried to prevent similar disruptions at later conventions, without much success.Luis Ferré-Sadurní contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »The Trump administration announced on Tuesday that it would begin phasing out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program on March 5, 2018.The program, introduced by President Barack Obama through executive action five years ago, offered certain young undocumented immigrants, typically brought to the United States as children, work permits and a two-year renewable reprieve from deportation.Since the program’s inception, nearly 800,000 have signed up. In many states, these so-called Dreamers have been eligible not only to work, but also to receive driver’s licenses and in-state tuition at public colleges.President Trump, who previously expressed sympathy for DACA recipients, called for the issue to be resolved “through the lawful democratic process,” saying that the program amounted to executive overreach by Mr. Obama.• There were 106,341 requests pending as of Aug. 20: 34,487 initial requests and 71,854 renewals.• Those who have DACA status can keep it until it expires. Beneficiaries whose status expires before March 5, 2018 can renew their two-year deportation protection and work permit by Oct. 5. There are approximately 200,000 people in this group, the last to benefit from the program, which will fully expire in 2020.• Unless Congress acts in their favor, DACA recipients will begin to lose protection March 6, 2018. They will no longer be eligible for lawful employment and they will be deportable. However, recipients who renew their status before March 6 can continue to work for the length of their renewal, which may be up to two years.• The announcement to repeal the program puts pressure on lawmakers to pass bipartisan legislation, such as the long-stalled Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, known as the Dream Act, a proposal to grant residency and a path to citizenship to young immigrants.• Polls show that DACA beneficiaries garner broad support from the American public as well as from Democrats and many moderate Republicans, largely because their immigration violation was not committed by choice — they were children when they came to the country — and because they were raised in the United States.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Information that DACA recipients provided to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, including addresses, fingerprints and other details, will not be provided to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for the purpose of making arrests.• Department of Homeland Security officials said former DACA recipients would not be a priority for deportation, unless they commit crimes. But given Trump administration policies that have made all undocumented immigrants deportable, it would be up to immigration agents to decide whether former DACA recipients would be spared when they are encountered, say, during an arrest of another immigrant.• Mr. Trump called on Congress to come up with a solution after his administration announced that it would end DACA. Lawmakers have drafted several bills but it is unclear whether a divided Congress will agree on a solution before March 5.• It is not clear whether there will be any change in how pending DACA applications are reviewed. Because DACA is discretionary, the Department of Homeland Security can begin to deny more cases, experts say. Until now, the overwhelming majority of applicants were approved, unless they had committed a serious crime or did not meet other criteria for eligibility.• If Congress does not act before DACA expires, it is not clear how employers will handle the termination of employees who have work permits thanks to the program. How businesses will be affected by the loss of workers, who include engineers, teachers, health care providers and other professionals, is also unknown.• DACA beneficiaries may seek alternative means to stay in the United States and work legally, such as asylum, a family-based visa or marriage.• It is unclear how the immigration service, which has been understaffed in the past, will handle a flood of renewal applications in the next month.A picture caption on an earlier version of this story misstated the location of a protest of the Trump administration’s shutdown of DACA. It was at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, not outside Trump Tower, which is a few blocks south.Go to Home Page »It is not just the threat of deportation that is hanging over Amparo Gonzalez. The 31-year-old single mother could also lose her job at a warehouse company, even if she stays in the country. With it would go the health insurance she gets through her employer, which covers her 13-year-old daughter, as well as the exams and treatments that Ms. Gonzalez needs for her chronic colon disease.With the news that roughly 800,000 people across the country would begin losing their protected status under DACA, which offered work permits and temporary reprieves from deportation to young undocumented immigrants, the program’s beneficiaries are now scrambling to prepare for the various ways the decision could upend their lives.Living and working in the United States are the two privileges most often associated with DACA. But for many recipients, those are merely the first dominoes to fall if Congress does not pass a replacement. The shutdown of the program could reverberate far beyond those privileges and topple the many others that DACA protection can confer, from state-sponsored health coverage and financial aid to driver’s licenses and professional credentials. The loss of these things could, in turn, disrupt recipients’ abilities to go to school, support their families and keep a roof over their heads.The law center’s researchers also found that more than half of DACA beneficiaries will be forced to relinquish driver’s licenses. And while many might find work under the table or from sympathetic employers, they could not obtain most occupational licenses, like those required for nursing and cosmetology.Although DACA’s deportation protections lasted only two years before needing to be renewed, widespread bipartisan support gave many recipients the confidence to make risky life decisions such as buying homes, pursuing graduate degrees and starting families. Those decisions came with major obligations that may be unmanageable without a steady job or benefits, but that cannot be canceled or renegotiated.“It’s just incalculable,” Thomas A. Saenz, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund said. “Any of the things that DACA provides are things that we all take for granted and cannot even imagine living without.”If state efforts in New York and California are unsuccessful, a combined 265,000 DACA recipients in those states will retain access to in-state college tuition, but may lose access to state-subsidized health care benefits.In New York, they would no longer be eligible for state-funded grants and student loans, and would no longer be able to drive legally. That may have a limited impact on immigrants in transit-rich New York City, but could be debilitating for those who work on farms or construction sites upstate, which can be far from their homes in areas where public transportation options are limited, if they are available at all.For roughly 120,000 DACA recipients in Texas, the loss of a driver’s license could be even more devastating, given the vastness of the state.Recipients in Arizona and Georgia may face the worst circumstances. The 50,000 in those states are already largely excluded from in-state college tuition, state-funded loans and grants, and subsidized health care; they would also lose the right to drive, and in Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina, they would be barred entirely from enrolling in some colleges and universities.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some of the estimated 280,000 beneficiaries who have attended college or graduate school have borrowed from two major lenders, Sallie Mae and Discover, which lent money to DACA recipients who could find sponsors who were United States citizens or permanent residents. Those borrowers may now have to make loan payments without the right to work legally.Denia Perez, who was born in Mexico and was brought to the United States when she was 11 months old, has borrowed about $40,000 from Discover to cover her living expenses at the Quinnipiac University School of Law in Connecticut. A dean’s scholarship pays for her tuition, but does not cover rent, food, gas or maintenance for her 2002 Honda CRV. She also purchased a health insurance policy, required by her school, which costs about $3,000 a year.For her final year of law school, Ms. Perez, 27, said she would borrow another $23,000, but this time from a friend. After her DACA status expires next October, she will not be able to work for a law firm in California, where she was raised and where she had planned to return to practice law. Under the terms of her Discover loans, she can defer repayment for just six months after graduating.Ms. Perez said that if need be, she would clean houses or work as a nanny to stay afloat, the way she did as an undergraduate student. Her father is a construction worker; her mother works in food service.“I would do what I have to do to pay my bills,” she said. “I am just fully prepared to hassle and make a living and try to continue surviving in any way I can. That is what we did before DACA.”Many DACA recipients became beacons of stability in their families, and immigrant advocates said that the changes would extend beyond the recipients themselves.Advocates for stronger immigration enforcement celebrated the changes, arguing that the resources of overburdened institutions were going to DACA recipients at the expense of American citizens and legal residents.“You’re essentially allowing parents to pass on to their children the benefits that they broke the law to obtain,” said Dan Stein, the president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which supported Mr. Trump’s decision. Mr. Stein added that the elimination of DACA would serve as a necessary deterrent for people who consider crossing the border illegally.Mr. Stein’s views are representative of many who believe that President Barack Obama did not have the authority to create the DACA program in the first place. “Nor do states have the right to run their own immigration program for people who have no right to be in the country,” he said.But it is too soon to assume that the end of DACA will abruptly roll back all protections for its beneficiaries. The president has called on Congress to pass legislation that would make the benefits permanent, and potentially even provide a path to citizenship.Mr. Trump said he would support such as bill, as long as it was tied to broader changes in immigration laws. He added to his rollback a six-month grace period, after which current recipients will no longer be able to renew their status. The administration immediately stopped accepting new applications.If such legislative measures fail, Ms. Gonzalez, the single mother who works at a warehouse company, will lose her status in December 2018.Ms. Perez, the law student, has not given up her dreams of becoming a lawyer, and still thinks of her loan obligations from the perspective of someone who was months away from joining the bar. Asked to entertain the possibility that she could request debt forgiveness if she loses her legal right to work, she replied, “It’s an interesting question — not sure it would hold up in court.”Miriam Jordan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Violeta Gomez-Uribe, 32, goes to kickboxing classes in Brooklyn. Eduardo Garcia, 22, lifts weights at the gym, in between classes and two jobs. Apolinar Islas, 34, who came to New York from Mexico when he was 15, said he walks around in “zombie mode” and tries to stay off social media to avoid “the tsunami of confusion.”All of them are recipients of DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that protects undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children from deportation and lets them work legally in this country.“I try not to think about it,” said Lizzette Rincon, 21, who came from Mexico 16 years ago. “That would be my anesthesia.”But amid this feverish push, many organizations are also seeing that they need to address another pressing need, one rarely talked about: the mental health toll.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“They are going on autopilot,” said María Mónica Andia, the supervisor of college programs for The Door, an organization that works with low-income young people. “They’re disassociating. What I’m hearing most often from students is that, ‘I’m in school, my body is there, but I’m not really there.’”She tries to remind students to adhere to a routine, and that while the future is uncertain, nothing has changed now.Isabel Martinez, an assistant professor of Latin American and Latina/o Studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, gave her students the same advice. “I told them, ‘You’re still going to see movies. You’re still going to have boyfriends or girlfriends,’” she said.Ms. Martinez arranged two pizza gatherings on Sept. 5 — one for lunch and one for dinner — modeling them after John Jay’s Pizza Mondays, which began in November as a support group for immigrant students or children of immigrant families worried about deportation under the Trump administration.Often, she added, because they are the responsible adults in their homes and did “not want to freak their parents out,” they have withheld their emotions.“We wanted to make sure the students were thinking that they are not alone in this,” she said.“I don’t remember the images, but the feeling of exhaustion is embedded in me,” Ms. Rincon said. “Right now, I feel like I’m a 5-year-old again, a lost child who needs someone to provide her with what she needs. I depend on someone else’s decision. And I don’t like to depend on nobody. I’m just dangling.”This helplessness and lack of control in an otherwise highly motivated group of young adults has led to shock, depression and despair, said several social workers who work with advocacy groups around the city.Amelia Ortega, who runs a private feminist psychotherapy practice in Queens and Philadelphia, said that since the Sept. 5 announcement, she has had 15 phone calls requesting appointments.“The unknowns are so raw and so real right now,” Ms. Ortega said. “I’m watching people’s bodies go to a place of being very frozen, or going to a place of hyper-vigilance because this is intersecting with increased police presence from ICE.”She was speaking about the immigration enforcement agency that has stepped up its arrests now that, under President Trump, all undocumented immigrants could be considered for deportation. Individuals respond to trauma in one of three ways, Ms. Ortega said: “There’s fight, flight or freeze, and I’m seeing all three being activated.”Ms. Gomez-Uribe, the kick-boxer, who has been in New York since she was 3, said she has become paranoid about whether the Trump administration has deliberately sent mixed signals on the future of DACA to keep immigrants off-balance emotionally. “I think that’s part of the plan — in order to make people not have the ability to think straight,” she said.Because she is older, and knew of a time before DACA, Ms. Gomez-Uribe said she thinks she is better equipped to fight. “Screaming at rallies” to protest the end of DACA serves as another stress release, she said.But she also has one fail-safe method. “I eat a lot of chocolate,” she said.See More »Go to Home Page »“The last three years that I have been teaching was like a world of possibility for me and my students,” said Mr. Ballesteros, 25, who is from the Philippines. “Today, I just didn’t feel that same level of hope.”He was just one of the estimated 30,000 DACA recipients in New York who now face uncertain futures, according to statistics kept by the city. The Trump administration gave Congress six months to come up with a legislative solution, while allowing the DACA permits to last until they expire.“We’re going to lose leaders and lose teachers — it’s not only their presence, but having a teacher than can share the same experiences that you possibly had growing up,” said Vanessa Luna, a DACA recipient who came to New York from Peru at age 10. She began in the classroom for Teach for America, and is now a recruiting manager for the organization in New York. "Their advocacy, their leadership, their resilience is extraordinary because of their own personal journey.”Mr. Ballesteros came to Queens with his parents at age 11, on his father’s work visa, which expired when the company for which he worked as an accountant closed. They moved to Jersey City, and Mr. Ballesteros earned a scholarship to nearby Drew University. He started with Teach for America in 2014 in Los Angeles, where most of his high school students were Mexican immigrants.Mr. Ballesteros said his parents, sensing the hostility toward undocumented immigrants already rising during the Obama administration, returned to the Philippines in 2015.Without family, his fellow teachers are his support network, and they meet weekly for food and drinks. Lately, it has been a somber affair.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many of Mr. Ballesteros’s students in East New York are from Caribbean immigrant families, and he has shared his own story with them since classes started. He declined to give the name of the school because of his uncertain legal status.“I don’t teach to talk about the contraction of gas particles,” he said. "I teach because I see so much of myself in my students and I know that my students see little bits and pieces of their own story in mine.”Mr. Ballesteros’s work permit expires in July 2019, and as of the Tuesday announcement, DACA recipients would be covered until the end of their permits. That gives him two years to stay in the classroom, but puts his goal of graduate school for a career in education policy or administration on hold. “DACA allowed me to dream and think,” he said. “Right now I can’t think past July 2019.”She renewed her DACA permit in April of this year, but that was no consolation on Tuesday.“It’s devastating news,” Ms. Morales said. “I don’t know if I’m going to be able to do the work I’m passionate about.”She came from Puebla, Mexico, when she was 6 years old, joining her parents and an older brother already in Brooklyn. She knew no English, but learned it so quickly that she soon forgot her Spanish. She relearned it, and then wanted to help other students succeed in both their native and second language.Even if she were to get a job in the classroom after she graduated, Ms. Morales said her permit would expire in the middle of the spring semester of 2019. “That’s not even enough time for one full school year,” she said.In explaining the administration’s cancellation of DACA, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said that recipients were taking jobs from American-born candidates. But Betty A. Rosa, the chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents, said in an interview that DACA teachers were not only qualified, but necessary to fill a statewide shortage — of teachers for English language learners, special education, math and science.“There’s a need, obviously, to have a high-quality teacher in front of them,” she said, but she added that teachers with DACA provided diversity that could help other marginalized students feel welcome. “It’s a way to expand the conversations we’ve been having about the idea of integration and equity and having representation.”Last Friday, Gabriela Siguil-Alarcon sent in her renewal application for DACA, which should arrive in time for the government’s Oct. 5 deadline. A former preschool teacher in the Bronx, Ms. Siguil-Alarcon, 27, started working closer to her home in Brewster, N.Y., because she has a 2-year-old son. She arrived in the Hudson Valley with her parents and sister in 1998 from Ecuador.Many of the 4-year-olds she is teaching now are from foster families, Ms. Siguil-Alarcon said. Beyond thinking about her perilous situation, she worries about them.“They’re going to think that I’m leaving because I want to — it’s not my choice,” she said. “People leave their lives constantly, and I don’t want to be one of them.”See More »Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeSupported byOp-Ed ContributorWASHINGTON — Suddenly, Washington is awash in talk about deal-making. On Wednesday, President Trump agreed with the Democrats on a plan to increase the debt limit and fund the government until December, enraging his Republican allies. This sudden thaw sets up the possibility of an even bigger deal: In exchange for making the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program permanent law, the Democrats would agree to maybe a couple of billion for the president’s beautiful wall on the border.Should the Democrats accept such a deal? A part of me would like to say they should. Hey, it’s an actual compromise, just like Washington politicians used to make!But alas, no, the Democrats should not. The reasons reflect both Americans’ views on these two policies and, more broadly, a brutal truth of our polarized politics today.Letting the Dreamers stay is also the position of many Republican leaders — House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senator Lindsey Graham most notably in recent days, but many others as well. It’s gone from being the liberal position to what we might call the common-sense humane position.It’s tempting. But once Democrats agree to one payment of $1.5 billion, the door to many payments of $10 billion or $20 billion has been flung open. And — here’s the crucial point — they will have lost all ability to make a principled case against Mr. Trump’s wall.I’m normally fairly comfortable with tactics and pragmatism, but this is one of those cases where that would constitute self-defeating politics. The Democrats need to be thinking about the midterm elections. Midterms are always “base” elections and referendums on the incumbent president. The Democrats should be heading into 2018 standing firm against the single most conspicuous symbol of Mr. Trump’s racial policies and attitudes, not cutting deals with him on it.And this brings us to a brutal truth of our polarized time: Pundits don’t like obstruction. Experts at think tanks bemoan it. But voters rarely punish it.These elections represented Republican voters rewarding their senators and representatives for saying no to President Obama on every major initiative. Democrats were outraged when the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, said in October 2010 that “the single most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president.” But not Republican voters. Two weeks after he said it, they gave Mr. McConnell six new Republican Senate colleagues to work with to try to accomplish that goal.I report this with no joy in my heart, but it is what it is. There may be some solutions for this state of affairs over the long term. But in the short term, one party can’t unilaterally disarm on a core issue.As for the Dreamers, Democrats should be able to find other ways to help them. As the six-month deadline approaches, the hue and cry will be thunderous. Republicans will feel enormous pressure. There will be other horses to trade then. But giving an unpopular president money for an unpopular idea is how a minority stays a minority.Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast and editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and left that you might not have seen.With this deal, Trump has betrayed his core followers and a significant campaign promise — the most startling such turnabout since the first President Bush went back on his “read my lips, no new taxes” pledge._____“Trump’s ascent likely dates back to Obama’s decision to unilaterally grant amnesty to a portion of the illegal alien population”Read more »_____“With a stroke of his pen, Trump could simply direct the IRS to favor American businesses that hire persons legally permitted to work in the U.S. This policy of Affirmative Wage Deduction (AWD) would cause an instant exodus of undocumented immigrants, potentially recoup billions of dollars in federal tax subsidies, and turn off the employment magnet that now draws thousands of illegal immigrants to breach our borders.”Mr. Barulich finds an alternative to passing immigration policy changes through the legislative process by looking to the tax code. With specificity, he offers regulatory efforts that he argues would lead to “millions of illegal immigrants employed in the hospitality, meatpacking, agriculture, construction, and garment industries” being “replaced by citizens.” His prescriptive pitch: “The president should stop blaming Congress for inaction on the concrete wall. He should keep his promise to his supporters and sign an executive order to create this ‘big, beautiful digital wall.’”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Read more »_____“There’s no particular way this helps Democrats proactively gain political capital.”_____“Going back to the Reagan administration proceeding to the Clinton years, the Bush years, and the Obama years, we have exorbitantly linked the criminal justice system with the immigration system. So we’ve stacked an immigration law enforcement apparatus on top of a racially biased criminal law enforcement apparatus, and not surprisingly that has led to a racially biased immigration law enforcement apparatus.”Read more »_____“Trump should set aside his insistence on his silly wall — which even many of his fellow Republicans dismiss as unnecessary and excessively costly — and put the well-being of the Dreamers ahead of his ill-advised campaign promises.”The Editorial Board makes their point pretty plainly: “We hope the president and leaders of both parties in Congress can find a way to make this work.” They cite fairness and allude to public polling that indicates that “most of the American people” agree with a path to citizenship for this cohort. They point out that “these are people, after all, who often have spent little time in the country where they were born, speak only English and have been brought up as Americans. To qualify for DACA protections, they had to be in school or have graduated or to have been in the military.”Read more »_____“The world according to Donald J. Trump is a constantly shifting place, filled with tenuous alliances and mind-twisting deals that may be more or less than they appear at first glance. In pursuing a deal with Democrats on hot-button immigration issues, Trump is challenging forces in both parties in ways that are fundamental to their identities.”The ABC analysts look at the political stakes for congressional leaders on both sides of the aisle. They say that President Trump has “shown his interest is not in bipartisanship but in cutting deals that enhance his own standing. By bringing Pelosi and Schumer close, he may be boxing them in.” That’s the concern he lays out for Democrats. For Republicans, the calculus appears a bit more obvious: Mr. Trump is “setting aside a key campaign promise in the interest of a proposal that immigration hard-liners consider an apostasy.”Read more »_____“Trump’s position on DACA has been softening for some time, but his apparent deal with Pelosi and Schumer, and his tweeted support for allowing Dreamers to stay, cement a monumental shift.”Read more »_____See More »Go to Home Page »Late-night hosts did their best on Thursday to make sense of the confounding deal-making process on immigration that unfolded between the White House and Congress’s Democratic leadership this week.The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said that Mr. Trump had “done more for bipartisanship in the last eight days than Obama did in eight years.” Trevor Noah sees things a little differently.For another perspective on the deal to protect the so-called Dreamers, immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children, Jimmy Fallon spoke with a correspondent for “The Tonight Show,” Julio Torres, who is himself a Salvadoran immigrant in the United States on a work visa.Mr. Trump recently traveled to Florida to see the effects of Hurricane Irma. Jimmy Kimmel wonders whether he fit in a round or two of golf while he was there.Here’s Mr. Fallon’s most relatable hashtag topic yet: weird roommates.Mr. Kimmel asked Stephen Colbert — who’s been off the air this week, preparing to host the Emmys on Sunday — about two of the “Late Show” host’s favorite topics: Mr. Trump and his former press secretary, Sean Spicer.Mr. Colbert returns on Monday for an eventful week. First, he’ll be celebrating his second anniversary at “The Late Show.” Then, on Tuesday, he interviews Hillary Clinton. We’ll be here on Tuesday to tell you about it.An earlier version of this article misidentified the comedian Julio Torres as a “Dreamer,” someone brought to the United States illegally as a child. He did not enter the country illegally; he is a legal immigrant on a work visa.See More »Go to Home Page »“Man is stupid, the Bible said,” he said. “It’s like that, when you don’t want to see, you don’t see.”In a typically wide-ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trump’s commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation, the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would “go down” if global warming was not recognized and addressed.“Then,” he said, “decide and history will judge the decisions.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I hope they rethink it a bit,” he said. “Because I heard the U.S. president speak. He presents himself as a man who is pro-life. If he is a good pro-life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity,” said Francis, who in the past has said that advocates, like Mr. Trump, of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were “not Christian.”(“I was leaning over to greet children,” he said “and I saw the glass, and boom!”)But, the pope said, “with prudence.”Pope Appeals to Climate Change Deniers While Urging Compassion on DACAGo to Home Page »Supported byOpinion“I did not raise you to cry,” my father would say when I fell off my bike, as he poured rubbing alcohol on my bloody 6-year-old knees. Not hydrogen peroxide — alcohol. Whenever I cried, which was usually when I did not get an A on a math test or saw a lost-dog poster or read about Anne Frank, my parents, immigrants from Ecuador, handed me a mirror to observe myself. They wanted to desensitize me to my own tears, to line my small heart with bulletproof glass, even if doing so meant making me hate my own weakness.Undocumented life in America is hard on the mind and body. Poverty, precarious employment, poor access to health care, discrimination and trauma from the migration itself often lead to disorders like depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder. Access to mental health treatment is scant, the demands of simply surviving are overwhelming, the fear of being discovered discourages people from seeking care, and the stigma of mental illness has perpetuated a culture of silence that only worsens the suffering.Some studies have found that the first wave of immigrants has a better mental health outlook than subsequent generations, which researchers say results from traditional family networks and values, as well as “lower expectations for success.” But such conclusions betray a misunderstanding. As a graduate student, I have interviewed dozens of undocumented people, including first-wave adults. Most of them speak of symptoms that we might call anxiety, depression and PTSD, even if the subjects themselves do not use this language, and have less familiarity with diagnostics and less access to treatment than their American-citizen children. These studies are from a more innocent time.My parents have lived in this country for 30 years, and they have seen their share of ghosts. I recently learned that my father hid his father’s death from me for three years because he did not want it to affect my mental health. Unable to travel, he could not bury him. I made my way through Harvard and Yale as an undocumented student. But even safe in my Ivy League college town, I have nightmares — of Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, of swastikas. When I travel the country meeting undocumented immigrants for my dissertation, I see my father’s face in theirs and I know this astigmatism will always be with me. Anytime my parents take too long to text me back or when they call me at an unusual time, I panic. When I hear them say, “Just reminding you to wear sunscreen today!” I want to laugh in relief.Here are some of the people I have met while researching my dissertation. Alejandro is a 49-year-old day laborer from Mexico who rents a room in Staten Island, to which he returns only at night to eat a dinner of oatmeal with milk and sugar, and then sleep. He has crossed the border four times to see his children but is too old for that now. Some of the trips were traumatizing. On one, a middle-aged man got so dehydrated that he could no longer swallow. “I can’t stop thinking of his face, the look in his eyes,” he says. Alejandro himself got so tired on that trip that he felt like giving up and surrendering to death, perhaps to be eaten by bobcats. But two young men lifted him up and pushed him by his shoulders up the slopes of a mountain. “They didn’t want me to die, and I didn’t want to let them down, so I lived,” he recalled. “I can’t stop thinking about them. When the news comes on, I worry I will see their faces.”A woman named Sandy described a stampede in Queens after a fake post about an ICE raid circulated on social media. Panicked crowds knocked her down and dozens of people trampled over her, stepping on her head and neck. Pressed against a wall, she could not breathe and had a panic attack. A Mexican neighbor came back to pull her to safety.William is a 16-year-old Dominican martial arts star who loves math and science but also struggles with anxiety and depression. “After the election, I thought I was lower than everyone in society, that I had no voice or role or place here — an alien, like people say,” he told me. He began to fear ICE was following him at all times and he had a nervous breakdown. “But then I got to a point where I didn’t care because I knew I was going to commit suicide and nothing would bother me after death,” he says. He was put on Zoloft and hospitalized for a week.Claudia is a 60-year-old Colombian woman who is afraid to go to the doctor. She goes anyway because she’s being treated for cancer, but winds up running out of the doctors’ offices when the treatment is over, fearful that someone will turn her in. She tells me she doesn’t watch the news and has installed surveillance cameras outside her apartment in case agents come to her door. “They don’t want us in this country,” she says. “We have to be careful.”Experts on immigrant mental health say they have already seen a spike in symptoms since President Trump’s inauguration. Roberto Gonzalez, an assistant professor of education at Harvard who studies undocumented youth, says he has seen parents pull their children from school out of fear. “This kind of elevated fear and anxiety can have detrimental physical and mental health effects in the long term,” he told me. “Many of the young people I’ve been studying have shown physical and emotional manifestations of stress: chronic headaches, toothaches, ulcers, sleep problems, trouble getting out of bed in the morning, eating issues.” It will get only worse, he said, with Mr. Trump’s DACA announcement.Rosa Maria Bramble, a social worker who works with undocumented families, including former ground zero cleanup workers with PTSD, told me that news of stepped-up enforcement triggers symptoms in her clients. “I work with a number of people who fled their countries because of political violence or gender violence, and after they reached these shores their symptoms of PTSD began to mitigate,” she says. “Now they feel just as vulnerable and persecuted and terrorized as they did prior to being here.”Spreading fear and anxiety, of course, is part of the administration’s plan. Thomas Homan, the acting director of ICE, recently said: “If you’re in this country illegally and you committed a crime by entering this country, you should be uncomfortable. You should look over your shoulder, and you need to be worried.”A common Spanish refrain is that dirty laundry is washed at home. But silence equals death. In lieu of comprehensive immigration reform, what can we do? Churches, community health centers and nonprofit organizations can provide referrals to bilingual therapists and conduct workshops on self-care, explaining depression and anxiety from a culturally sensitive perspective. Licensed therapists, psychologists and psychiatrists can offer care for reduced fees to low-income clients, and clinics can hire more bilingual practitioners. Teachers can check in with students from mixed-status families. All of this would be smart from a public health perspective. But it is also a moral imperative.Every morning at 6:40, as he is going to work in construction, I text my father extravagant statements about my love for him. I do it again in the evening, urging him to rest, reminding him my dog has green eyes just like my grandfather, asking if he has ever been so adored, hoping that I can inoculate him and my mother against the evils of the current administration. We are a generation apart and have different ideas about what tactics can preserve the heart. Here is the child whom he taught not to cry, begging her father to accept her love as a substitute for everything else that is good and fair.But love alone cannot cure what ails us, and neither can resilience or quiet strength.Karla Cornejo Villavicencio is a graduate student in American Studies at Yale.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorHOUSTON — As the floodwaters rose in my west Houston neighborhood after Hurricane Harvey landed, my husband and many of our neighbors pulled boats through waist-high water, knocked on doors and plucked people from their submerged houses. They rescued elderly couples, young roommates, families who do not speak English. There was no checking of IDs, no debate on whether a life was worth saving.All across the city, as catastrophic flooding threatened to drown us, regular people risked their lives to help others. Alonso Guillen, a radio host and D.J. who lived in Lufkin, Tex., two hours from Houston, brought a boat and a group of friends here to join in those efforts. He was on that boat, saving people he had never met before, when it capsized last Wednesday and he drowned. Alonso Guillen died a hero, if not an American citizen. He was a Dreamer, a beneficiary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, and like the nearly 141,000 other Dreamers in Texas, he followed the requirements of the program — to stay in school or be gainfully employed — and had never been convicted of a crime. More than that, Texas was his home.Around the time Alonso Guillen was buried in Lufkin, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced President Trump’s decision to cancel the DACA program, saying that “enforcing the law saves lives, protects communities and taxpayers, and prevents human suffering.” Instead, what the announcement shows is how suffering can needlessly be inflicted.The end of DACA means that hundreds of thousands of people nationwide will lose their eligibility to work. As many as 80,000 Dreamers in the greater Houston area alone could be deported to countries where they have no relationships, where they do not even speak the language. It is the disaster of this decision — more than the hurricane — that threatens to tear our city apart.On Saturday, after Mr. Guillen’s boat capsized but days before his body was found, President Trump came to Houston for the second time since the hurricane, to meet with families at shelters and churches. In a dry, air-conditioned building, he met with elected officials, took a few selfies with evacuees and kissed their babies before leaving on his plane.Attorney General Jeff Sessions called the choice to end DACA “the compassionate thing.” But this decision doesn’t look like any kind of compassion I’ve seen in Houston, where everyone I know has chosen to open their homes to strangers, to feed them, clothe them, raise money for the restoration of their homes. Even people whose own houses were destroyed are helping others in the ways they can.Has President Trump ever risked anything to help a stranger in need? I suspect he has not, because there’s an idea he has been promoting for some time now — and this decision is part of it — that America is a small boat and there just aren’t enough seats. He built his campaign on that idea. But even as he chooses to peddle that cruel vision of the world, in Houston we’ve chosen another.Houston is the most diverse major city in the country, and we’re proud of that. But the city is not without its problems. There is mind-boggling wealth inequality and enduring segregation. Hurricane Harvey ravaged our neighborhoods without regard for socioeconomic or immigration status, but that’s not to say it didn’t reveal them. During the storm some people were reluctant to call for help for fear of being deported, and now, for these vulnerable populations, the idea of “recovery” is no less fraught.The conversation about what comes next, how to rebuild and how to engineer a more equitable city, is a long one and is now only beginning. Tomorrow, some of us will choose to prepare meals, to join a work crew, to deliver donations on a flatbed truck. We’re planning to fight like hell for every single one of our Dreamers — to keep them where they are already home.Lacy M. Johnson is the author of “The Other Side: A Memoir” and the forthcoming essay collection “The Reckonings.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOpinionPast the Ferris wheel, a line of young immigrants snaked into the crowded hallways of an event space on Chicago’s Navy Pier. It was August 2012. I overheard two women wondering whether they should have showed up and gotten in the line, to apply for a new program that would let some undocumented people who had come to this country as children get a work permit.“I don’t know if we should trust the government,” one of the women said.“I don’t know, either,” the other replied. “But I really want to work and help my mom pay rent.”It wasn’t your choice to come to America. But once you realize you’re here illegally, it becomes your choice to figure out who gets to know that.Can you tell your classmates that you can’t join the overseas choir trip because you don’t have a valid passport? Can you tell your coach that you have to stay in the area and can’t be recruited by an out-of-state college? Can you tell a human resources manager that you can’t get a driver’s license because you don’t have a Social Security number?How will your work be affected by the president’s decision?When you exist in a legal maze shrouded in doubts, every decision is a gut check.In 2002, Pat Foote, a recruiter at The Seattle Times, told me that she couldn’t offer me a summer internship because I am in the United States illegally. I later made my way to Seattle just so that I could look her in the eye and ask that she not share my secret. She was a stranger, the first potential employer I’d ever told, and I asked for her trust.The scariest stranger of all is the United States government. It could deport you from the place you call home. That’s a fear I live with.The landscape of trust shifted dramatically in 2012, when President Barack Obama issued a directive to establish the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. In addition to protecting immigrants who were brought to the United States before the age of 16 from deportation for a renewable two-year period, it granted a work permit to qualified immigrants who were under age 31 on June 15, 2012, the date of its announcement. Applicants paid a $465 fee for processing and gave all their contact information (name, address, phone number) to the government they had grown up fearing. In effect, the Obama administration said, “Trust us.”I did not qualify for DACA — I turned 31 four months before the policy was announced — but was thrilled for my younger undocumented friends who did qualify. I carried that thrill with me to Chicago on the first day that people could apply. Since then, an estimated 800,000 undocumented Americans across the country have received this deferred action.As soon as news started leaking that President Trump, who campaigned on ending the program, would deliver on his promise, the questions came flooding in. Friends whose lives and livelihoods depended on this promise the government had made needed to know: Will my boss still keep me on when DACA expires? Will my scholarship continue? How can I pay my mortgage? Who can we trust now?Can we trust President Trump, whose conflicting messages illustrate his ignorance of how DACA works?Can we trust Congress, especially given that some Democrats and Republicans have historically used so-called Dreamers, named after the long-stalled Dream Act, as bargaining chips?We can’t know what President Trump and Congress will do. But we do know who to trust now — the people we had to trust before. To me, that means the teachers who see up close the injustice of life as an undocumented immigrant in this country.After she announced to our class that we were going to Japan for spring break, I pulled her aside and said that I couldn’t go. “I don’t have the right passport,” I said. Confused, Mrs. Denny replied: “Oh, it’s O.K., Jose. We’ll get you the right passport.” I told her it was more complicated than that, that I didn’t have any piece of legal document that I could show, that I wasn’t supposed to be here. Her eyes widened, her lips pursed, and she didn’t say another thing. A couple of days later, to my surprise, she told the class that we were going to Hawaii instead. Years later, she told me: “You were my kid. I wasn’t going to leave any of my kids behind.”How many more Mrs. Dennys have made and will continue to make that decision?CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBefore reading the article:What themes emerge from the stories?Finally, tell us more about what you think:It’s hard to overstate how much DACA changed everyday life for people like me. Before the executive order, I couldn’t legally get a job. I couldn’t get a state ID. I couldn’t apply for virtually any scholarships. And traveling was risky. After high school, I bought myself a ticket to my first trip outside of New York since arriving from Mexico. I sweated as I went through security, worried that someone might call immigration officials if they found out I was undocumented.But with DACA, I got a Social Security number, a state ID and work authorization. I got a job at a fine-dining restaurant, which coincidentally, was located in one of Mr. Trump’s hotels. At the time, I was proud of that. I worked in a fancy building, named for a billionaire businessman who was famous on TV. I even bragged about it because, for the first time, I wasn’t worried about whether my employer would find out about my immigration status. I had been hiding for seven years, but I was done.It’s not that the paranoia of my previous life ended: All of us Dreamers knew that DACA was a measure that provided temporary relief, subject to renewal. We all had our fingerprints taken, our criminal records scoured. We knew we needed to be good — so much depended on our good behavior. Undocumented students are generally pretty intense about following rules: We are tasked with proving that we belong here by being “perfect,” and we have to build respect for our families, who are sometimes in even more dangerous situations, and often even more careful about following rules.This is something that is so misunderstood about Dreamers. We aren’t a group of young people who take our blessings for granted. We know how much rests on our shoulders.What is your reaction to Mr. Aca’s words? Do you think he, and the many other Dreamers, should be allowed to finish college and then find employment in the United States? Or, due to their undocumented status, should Dreamers be deported?See More »Go to Home Page »• Irma makes landfall.• Into the deluge.As Harvey's rains bore down on Texas, a 911 dispatcher and a pastor's daughter felt nature at its fiercest — and saw humanity at its best.• An obstacle to China’s ambitions.Beijing’s path to dominance in Asia would require an American withdrawal and message to allies that they cannot count on Washington for protection.In today’s show, we discuss the origins and significance of the DACA program with a policy adviser to former President Barack Obama._____Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• An “interplanetary” marriage.Six people are living in isolation for eight months on a volcano in Hawaii as part of a NASA-funded study to simulate human exploration of Mars. In the sixth episode of this 360-video series, we observe the challenges of an interplanetary marriage.• Partisan writing you shouldn’t miss.• A modern twist on an old rivalry.Major League Baseball is considering penalties.• Quiz time!The Trump administration promised to roll back Obama-era rules for healthier school lunches.• Quotation of the day.“God has given you too much money when you have someone else tend your vegetable garden.”The work, which tells the story of a Cuban fisherman and the greatest catch of his life, was a huge success and won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. A year later, Hemingway was awarded the Nobel Prize “for his mastery of the art of narrative, most recently demonstrated in ‘The Old Man and the Sea,’ and for the influence that he has exerted on contemporary style.”Our critic, the Smith College professor Robert Gorham Davis, wrote that it was “a tale superbly told, and in the telling Ernest Hemingway uses all the craft his hard, disciplined trying over so many years has given him.”Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____See More »Go to Home Page »Good evening. Here’s the latest.__________He wrote that Congress “now has 6 months to legalize DACA” and “If they can’t, I will revisit this issue!” The conflicting messages seemed to reflect what aides describe as his own conflicting emotions about the issue. He also discussed tax reform in North Dakota, above._____He’ll say Mass tomorrow in Bogotá, and on Friday he’ll beatify clerics killed in the war. Over the weekend, he’ll visit Medellín and Cartagena, which have staged remarkable turnarounds.But his efforts to encourage peace are complicated, because many Colombians disagree with the deal. “The pope may forgive them,” one young woman said of the rebels. “But in my heart I don’t.”_____Meteorologists say that the smoke in Western Washington is expected to dissipate by morning, and that some rain is in the forecast for Oregon, above._____More than 146,000 people, nearly all Rohingya Muslims, have crossed since late last month. A U.N. spokeswoman said that refugee camps that were already packed are now “at the breaking point.”____________________“It seems like his main agenda is just to undo everything Obama did,” he said. “I hope he doesn’t bring Bin Laden back to life.”Have a great night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.See More »Go to Home Page »On Tuesday, after Mr. Trump’s action was announced, business leaders and companies released statements through a variety of channels to express their disapproval.AppleThe company’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, wrote in a Twitter message that Apple would fight for the people affected by Mr. Trump’s action to be “treated as equals.”In a previous message, Mr. Cook said hundreds of Apple employees were covered by DACA.Facebook“This is a sad day for our country. The decision to end DACA is not just wrong. It is particularly cruel to offer young people the American dream, encourage them to come out of the shadows and trust our government, and then punish them for it.”Microsoft“If Congress fails to act, our company will exercise its legal rights properly to help protect our employees. If the government seeks to deport any one of them, we will provide and pay for their legal counsel.”Univision Communications“I am disappointed, to say the least, in today’s announcement by the administration to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in six months.“The U.S. government is revoking the ability of roughly 800,000 Dreamers to continue to work and contribute in countless ways to the United States — the only home they have ever known. This is a failure to live up to a commitment already made to Dreamers and is contrary to America’s values and traditions.”GoogleSundar Pichai, the company’s chief executive, wrote on Twitter:Goldman SachsLloyd Blankfein, the bank’s chief executive, urged Congress to restore DACA’s protections.The Walt Disney CompanyRobert A. Iger, the chairman and chief executive, said in a statement that Congress should pass legislation to “protect these innocent people.” He echoed those remarks on Twitter.Rescinding DACA is cruel and misguided. Dreamers contribute to our economy and our nation. Congress must act fast to protect them!EBayDevin Wenig, the chief executive, urged members of Congress on Twitter to restore DACA’s protections.Business RoundtableCiscoChuck Robbins, the company’s chief executive, said on Twitter that he backed the Dreamers.BoxThe company’s chief executive, Aaron Levie, also posted on Twitter in support of the deferred action program.Congress must act immediately to allow Dreamers to stay. This should be priority # 1 given the confusion and stress ending DACA will cause.Bank of AmericaBrian Moynihan, the company’s chief executive, released a statement: “The individuals covered by the terms of this program live in and contribute to the neighborhoods and communities across our country that we serve every day. We encourage Congress to resolve this issue in a manner that allows those contributions to continue and our communities to thrive.”WalmartThe company released a statement urging lawmakers to act. “We encourage Congress to work on a bipartisan solution that provides clarity to those involved and recognizes those who have strong ties to their communities and came to the U.S. in a way that was outside their control. As a company we have come to highly value many of these individuals as our customers and fellow associates. Any legislative solution needs to avoid disrupting families, our communities and the economy.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — For months, an anxious and uncertain President Trump was caught between opposing camps in the West Wing prodding him to either scrap or salvage an Obama-era program allowing undocumented immigrants brought to the country as minors to remain in the United States.Last week, with a key court deadline looming for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, Mr. Trump, exasperated, asked his aides for “a way out” of a dilemma he created by promising to roll back the program as a presidential candidate, according to two people familiar with the exchange.Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, John F. Kelly, who had wrestled with crafting a compromise in his previous job as the president’s homeland security secretary, began consulting with Republican lawmakers and staff members for a quick fix, according to three officials familiar with the situation. He finally arrived at an inelegant solution to an intractable problem: Delaying a decision on the final fate of about 800,000 “Dreamers” covered by President Barack Obama’s executive action for six months, and putting it on Congress to come up with a legislative solution to the problem.Congressional Republicans expect the administration to unveil some version of this stopgap solution on Tuesday, but Mr. Trump will not make the announcement himself. Instead, Attorney General Jeff Sessions will handle it at an 11 a.m. briefing. He will not take questions from reporters.The delay would buy the president some much-needed breathing room. But it is certain to displease nearly everyone else, especially as there is no guarantee that a squabbling Congress, which failed to address immigration under President Obama, will come up with a long-term solution.“It’s not clear what delaying this for six months means,” said Mark Krikorian, an immigration hard-liner who runs the Center for Immigration Studies who has supported the president’s actions to curtail immigration.“He’s being pulled in a bunch of different directions, and because he doesn’t have any strong ideological anchor, or deep knowledge of the issue, he ends up sort of not knowing what to do,” Mr. Krikorian said. “I think the fact that they did nothing to it suggests that they had no idea what to do,” he added.Mr. Trump’s frenzied weekend search for an alternative to abruptly ending the program was a fitting finale to his anguished deliberations over DACA since he took office. Aides have portrayed it as a difficult emotional decision for the president.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The main pressure to end the program is coming from Mr. Trump’s hard-line policy adviser, Stephen Miller; Mr. Sessions; and his still-influential former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, who believe that nothing short of a complete and immediate shutdown of the program will fulfill the president’s campaign pledges.They have warned the president that immediate action is required to head off the lawsuits against the program brought by a group of red state attorneys general.Mr. Kelly, who is broadly supportive of the program, has been searching for a way to stave off the threat of the lawsuits. He was also motivated to create a compromise after hearing reports of young DACA immigrants assisting in disaster recovery efforts during two trips to Texas last week, according to an administration official.The no-decision decision, some in the administration conceded, is reminiscent of Mr. Obama’s deferred pledge to close the detention center at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba — another campaign promise that proved difficult to fulfill but impossible to abandon.DACA, by contrast, affects many more people. Any decision by Mr. Trump to wind down the program would immediately start the clock on throwing previously undocumented immigrants who obtained temporary reprieves and authorizations to work — known as Dreamers — into a vulnerable status that would make them subject to potential deportation.“The federal government has the cellphone and home address of every DACA recipient,” said Todd Schulte, president of FWD.us, a progressive immigration reform group that has urged the president to retain the program.“They grew up here, they work at nearly every major company in America, serve in the military and many are working on recovery efforts in Texas,” he added. “If DACA is repealed and no permanent legislation passed, they will all be fired and our government will begin the large-scale deportation of people raised in the United States, using information they volunteered to the government with the promise it would never be used against them or their families.”On Sunday night, a group from several states with DACA recipients held a candlelight vigil outside the home of Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law, Jared Kushner.A spokesman for Mr. Obama said he was likely to make a rare public statement opposing Mr. Trump if DACA is changed, though he will probably confine his comments to social media.The delay would also throw congressional Republicans into limbo.Mr. Trump’s staff had always intended to refer the issue to Congress, and Mr. Kelly began discussing the possibility when he was in the cabinet, two senior White House official said. But they never planned to toss what one of the officials described as an unpinned hand grenade at Capitol Hill Republicans quite this soon.Doing that, however, fits a pattern that Mr. Trump has established in recent months of postponing consequential decisions on contentious topics, like health care reform, leaving it to senior members of his administration or Republican congressional leaders to articulate a final position while seeking to deflect blame for the results.Hill Republicans, especially House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, had urged the president not to introduce immigration reform — an issue that has splintered the party in recent years — until lawmakers had passed an increase in the debt ceiling, and spending and tax reform bills.Moderates, including Mr. Kushner, and the National Economic Council chairman, Gary D. Cohn, had urged the president to reach beyond his hard-right populist base to embrace a program that enjoys significant public support, even among Republicans. Business leaders, among them political allies like the media mogul Rupert Murdoch and Stephen A. Schwarzman, chairman and chief executive of the Blackstone Group, believe any move to limit legal immigration limits the work force and hurts the country’s international reputation.But the moderates in Mr. Trump’s midst, Mr. Cohn in particular, are somewhat less influential these days, after several expressed their disgust at the president’s response to the racial riots in Charlottesville, Va., last month.Mr. Sessions, who has experienced his own deep freeze with Mr. Trump over the Russia investigation, has regained some of his influence, pressing Mr. Trump to end the DACA program before the courts force his hand. Mr. Miller, a former Sessions aide, has cast Mr. Trump’s actions as a key test of the president’s commitment to the economic nationalist agenda he ran on in 2016.Mr. Trump initially embraced their call for urgency.Now that sense of urgency is being felt by supporters of DACA in both parties — and they may not be willing to wait six months to reassure endangered immigrants that they will have a place in their adopted country.Representative Mike Coffman, a Colorado Republican who represents a heavily Latino district and faces a tough re-election bid, said Monday that he planned to push a legislative maneuver to get a vote on an extension of DACA co-sponsored by Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, an Illinois Democrat.“There are a number of Democrats who are co-sponsors on it, so I think it would be tough to play political games with the bill,” Mr. Coffman said on Monday. “I will get heat from a lot of conservatives in my district.”Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Glenn Thrush reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Yamiche Alcindor contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeTrump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeWASHINGTON — Democratic leaders on Wednesday night declared that they had a deal with President Trump to quickly extend protections for young undocumented immigrants and to finalize a border security package that does not include the president’s proposed wall.The Democrats, Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi, said in a joint statement that they had a “very productive” dinner meeting with the president at the White House that focused on the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. “We agreed to enshrine the protections of DACA into law quickly, and to work out a package of border security, excluding the wall, that’s acceptable to both sides,” they said.In a statement on Wednesday night, the White House was far more muted, mentioning DACA as merely one of several issues that were discussed, including tax reform and infrastructure. It called the meeting, which came a week after the president struck a stunning spending-and-debt deal with the Democratic leaders, “a positive step toward the president’s strong commitment to bipartisan solutions.”While Democratic leaders sought to frame the Wednesday dinner as a victory for their priorities, Republican votes will be needed for any immigration overhaul. Hard-liners in Congress were flummoxed by word of a potential deal on DACA, one that could push some of Mr. Trump’s electoral base away from him.While the two top Republican congressional leaders, Senator Mitch McConnell and Speaker Paul D. Ryan, attended that meeting, they were absent from the Wednesday night dinner.A total of 11 people were seated at the table in the Blue Room of the White House on Wednesday night, with the first 30 minutes of the meeting focused on China trade issues, according to one person briefed on the dinner. The meal served was Chinese food, an intentional nod to China trade, on which Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer hold their closest views.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“With all the other things going on right now, it’s kind of put on the back burner,” said Representative Mike Coffman, Republican of Colorado, who had pulled back a petition he had hoped to use to force the House to take up legislation on the program. Representative Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has said that the program is at the end of a list of immigration priorities.Several top Republican leaders in Congress, including Mr. Ryan, have said that they want to tackle the issue of the young immigrants in conjunction with a broader immigration reform and border security effort.Some Republicans have been concerned that the president, who has been pursuing more of a bipartisan patina as he struggles to secure major legislative achievements and his poll numbers sink over his handling of the racially charged violence in Charlottesville, Va., will go along with Democratic priorities.The wall was a key campaign pledge by Mr. Trump, but Democrats are vehemently against it.Mr. Trump recently began to wind down DACA, which has provided protection from deportation for roughly 800,000 young undocumented immigrants. But he has been torn about it.The president has sent conflicting signals about his intentions regarding the program, saying he would end it but urging Congress to come up with a legislative solution during the six-month wind-down period. But he has also told people he would revisit the issue after the six-month period if Congress did not act.That would be a difficult task, since his own attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has declared DACA unconstitutional and an overreach of authority. It is not clear what mechanism Mr. Trump thinks he might have to put the program back in place through the executive branch.At the White House earlier on Wednesday, Mr. Trump’s anti-immigration national policy adviser, Stephen Miller, told people that the administration would never allow a version of the replacement legislation, known as the Dream Act, to pass.Mr. Trump’s zigzagging statements on the program, and his drift back toward preserving it, came after days of deeply negative news media coverage over his decision to end the program. Mr. Trump, who pays close attention to the headlines, told advisers he was bothered by the seemingly endless bad press over DACA.During the campaign, Mr. Trump promised to end DACA. But in April, he indicated that people covered under the program had nothing to fear from his administration. However, several states, led by Texas, threatened a lawsuit, which Mr. Sessions used to nudge the president toward a decision.While Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi were celebrating their apparent agreement with Mr. Trump on the “Dreamers” and border security, the president himself had nothing to say about the dinner on his favorite communication platform.Instead, Mr. Trump renewed his attacks on Hillary Clinton, who was back in the news this week promoting her campaign memoir, “What Happened.”“Crooked Hillary Clinton blames everybody (and every thing) but herself for her election loss,” he tweeted around 11 p.m. as cable news channels and news websites blared the news of his dinner with the Democratic leaders. “She lost the debates and lost her direction!”Minutes later, he followed up with another Clinton broadside: “The ‘deplorables’ came back to haunt Hillary. They expressed their feelings loud and clear. She spent big money but, in the end, had no game!”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump came under withering attack on Thursday from some of his strongest supporters, who were outraged and unforgiving about his decision to set aside, for now, a fight over building the border wall he has long promised as part of a deal with Democrats on legislation to protect young, undocumented immigrants.The tentative arrangement, which the president hashed out over dinner on Wednesday night at the White House with the top-ranking congressional Democrats, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, set off accusations of betrayal and renewed nagging doubts about whether Mr. Trump was in jeopardy of alienating some of his most ardent backers on the right.No promise was more central to his campaign than building the border wall. And no constituency was more passionate in defending Mr. Trump’s pledge than the conservatives who believed he would be uncompromising in his approach toward illegal immigration.The condemnation was swift and came from many different conservative corners: members of his own party in Congress, his most steadfast boosters on talk radio and the grass roots.Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio host who has until now been sparing in her criticism of the president, told her listeners on Thursday that the political cost Mr. Trump and the Republican Party would pay would be steep. “He’s going to get creamed for this,” she said, reminding her audience of all the times during the campaign that Mr. Trump chanted — and his crowds repeated — “Build the Wall!”Ms. Ingraham mocked Mr. Trump’s statement on Thursday that parts of the current border fence were being reinforced under his direction. “We’re doing a lot of renovation,” he said before leaving Washington to tour hurricane damage in Florida. “I don’t remember,” Ms. Ingraham said, “hearing ‘Repair the fence! Repair the fence! Repair the fence!’”Amid all the political controversy, legal peril and everyday disarray inside the Trump White House, one question has been at the front of the minds of the many Republicans across the country whose fates are linked to the president’s: How much more would his base tolerate? If Mr. Trump’s deal with the Democrats did not immediately provide a clear answer, it did seem to reinforce how the long leash his supporters have granted him is being reined in.On conservative talk radio programs Thursday morning, listeners called in to voice their disapproval. Some said Mr. Trump had confirmed what they suspected all along about the insincerity of his conservative convictions. Others said the president, a self-proclaimed master negotiator, had been rolled by the Democrats. The comments mostly added up to a damning conclusion: Mr. Trump had tricked his voters.“I always figured Trump would go Schwarzenegger on us,” said one caller into the Hugh Hewitt program, invoking the former California governor whom many conservatives believed sold them out.“The No. 1 reason I voted for him was for the immigration,” said a caller into Ms. Ingraham’s show. “I want the wall. I want it to be seen in space, like the Chinese wall.”Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who is perhaps the leading voice in Congress advocating the hard line on immigration that Mr. Trump has voiced, predicted that the president’s base is “blown up, destroyed, irreparable.”A smaller number of conservative Trump supporters like Mr. King seemed most upset about the specifics of the deal and how it seemed to open the door to a path to legalization for 800,000 immigrants. But what many more Republicans seemed to find so objectionable was that Mr. Trump would so brazenly cut deals with Democrats.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.His sudden embrace of politicians that Republicans have spent years fighting in intense political combat — especially Ms. Pelosi, whom Republicans have made into an avatar for the liberal, coastal elite — sowed confusion and seemed to raise questions about how effectively Republicans could continue to demonize the people they assumed were their sworn enemies.“Republicans have spent so much time and money targeting Nancy Pelosi as the enemy over the last few cycles, the idea that you’re now going do a deal with her has to rub people the wrong way,” said Russ Schriefer, a Republican consultant who has worked for George W. Bush and Mitt Romney. “Doesn’t it hurt all these Republican congressmen who want to use her as the liberal foil in their campaigns?”“It is just confusing,” Mr. Schriefer added.Immigration reform has never been an easy issue for Republicans — even when it is something as seemingly straightforward and popular as giving young immigrants who came here by no fault of their own a form of legal legitimacy. The fact remains that many conservatives will still call that amnesty.“No one knows what the deal is,” said Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, who expressed wariness about the deal. “Anything that smacks of amnesty in Alabama, that gives American jobs to illegal aliens rather than American citizens, is not going to be well received.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — As secretary of homeland security in 2012, Janet Napolitano created DACA, the federal program that protected more than 800,000 young, undocumented immigrants from deportation and allowed them to work legally in the United States.Now, as the president of the sprawling University of California system, she is suing President Trump to save it.Lawyers for Ms. Napolitano and the school system she leads, which serves 238,000 students across 10 campuses, filed a lawsuit on Friday in federal court accusing Trump officials of violating administrative procedures and constitutional due process requirements by abruptly ending the program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.Having done so, she says in the lawsuit, Mr. Trump harmed the thousands of undocumented students whose attendance at her universities is made possible by the work permits that they receive through DACA. And she says that ending the program will negatively affect the university system, which stands to lose the academic and cultural benefits those students bring.“I’m really outraged on behalf of our students, who have done everything that has been asked of them,” Ms. Napolitano said in an interview Thursday night. “Most of them know only the United States as home. To say that they have to be thinking about possible deportation is wrong on the law, inconsistent with our value and bad immigration policy.”The lawsuit is the among a series of early, high-profile legal challenges to the president’s decision on Tuesday to abruptly end the DACA program, which was aimed at helping undocumented immigrants who had been brought illegally to the United States by their parents when they were children.It is also the latest attempt by the president’s critics to oppose Mr. Trump’s aggressive immigration policies, using the courts as a cudgel against his travel ban, enhanced immigration enforcement efforts and now, the decision to end the DACA protections.Another suit was filed on Wednesday in New York by more than a dozen Democratic state attorneys general, alleging among other things that the decision to end the DACA program was motivated by racial animus toward Mexicans, as evidenced by Mr. Trump’s comments during the presidential campaign.In a news conference at the Justice Department this week, Attorney General Jeff Sessions called the program an “open-ended circumvention of immigration laws,” an “unconstitutional exercise of authority by the executive branch” and an example of “unilateral executive amnesty.”“The program known as DACA,” Mr. Sessions said simply, “is being rescinded.”Immigration advocates, business executives, academic leaders, foreign governments and lawmakers in both parties condemned that action. Several legal rights groups have announced plans to fight the decision even as activists have mounted daily political protests in Washington and other cities across the country.But Ms. Napolitano is uniquely positioned to plead the legal case on behalf of the policy, which she helped to develop for former President Barack Obama during her tenure as his top homeland security official.It is her signature on the June 15, 2012, document that established the DACA program. In the three-page memorandum, she argues that the nation’s immigration laws were not designed to “remove productive young people to countries where they may not have lived or even speak the language.”In the five years since she issued the memo, hundreds of thousands of young, undocumented immigrants signed up for legal work permits and DACA’s protection from deportation. The action by the Trump administration on Tuesday will allow some of those immigrants to remain protected for up to two years, but no new applicants to the program will be accepted. And after a six-month implementation period, many of will lose the right to work and will be subject to immediate deportation starting in early March.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The government just can’t turn 180 degrees on something like DACA without taking the proper steps,” Ms. Napolitano said. “They didn’t take the proper steps.”Critics of Mr. Obama’s used the very same argument to attack a similar executive action that sought to protect undocumented parents of Americans and lawful residents. That program was never put in effect after Republicans sued, claiming in part that the president had violated the Administrative Procedures Act.Ms. Napolitano’s lawsuit, which was filed in Federal District Court in Northern California, also claims that the decision to rescind her DACA memo was “arbitrary and capricious” because the Trump administration officials did not offer an expansive legal argument justifying their decision.“If the agency wants to change the rules, they need to explain why,” said Alexander A. Berengaut, a lawyer for Covington & Burling, a law firm that is representing Ms. Napolitano and the university system.The lawsuit contends that the Trump administration needed to provide a more substantial justification for ending the program because those who enrolled in it made long-term decisions like enrolling in college or getting a loan based on the assumption that it would continue.And finally, the suit alleges a violation of the constitutional due process rights of DACA enrollees.Stephen H. Legomsky, a professor at the Washington University School of Law and a former general counsel at the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the university’s legal case is making plausible arguments for the court to consider.“I definitely think this lawsuit stands a good chance of succeeding,” Mr. Legomsky said. “So much is going to turn on which judge they land.”Lawyers for Ms. Napolitano are urging the court to issue an injunction preventing the federal government from ending the program.The request for action by the courts is not as urgent as during the travel ban case, when lawyers asked for immediate relief from the court system because people were trapped in transit or at airports. And federal judges often defer to the executive branch on immigration policy.Still, she said on Thursday that the court should take the case seriously because the elimination of the program has the potential to be devastating for many young immigrants.“These are young people who have done all we have asked at them,” she said. “They have succeeded academically. They have graduated. They’ve started businesses. I think we’re suing to vindicate the rights of our students and the interests of the university.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byWASHINGTON — Speaker Paul D. Ryan, just days after saying President Trump should hold off on scrapping an Obama-era program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation, reversed course on Wednesday and said the president made “the right call” by ending the program.Last week, as Mr. Trump weighed whether to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, Mr. Ryan said, “I actually don’t think he should do that.” He added that Congress, not the president, should be making such policies.“This is something that Congress has to fix,” the speaker said.On Wednesday, he again said Congress needs to step in, but this time, he did not second-guess the president.Mr. Trump, he said, “was right in his decision” to give Congress the time to find a compromise that could protect the 800,000 young adults brought to the United States illegally as children who qualify for the program, also known as DACA.“He gave us time to work out a consensus, to find a compromise,” Mr. Ryan said. “Where does that compromise exist? That’s what we’re going to spend the next months figuring out, where that compromise is.”After Mr. Trump decided to do away with the DACA program, the issue landed in Congress’s lap, and pressure is mounting. Democrats have pressed for a stand-alone Dream Act, first drafted in 2001, to offer legal status to young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children.But Mr. Ryan indicated that any legislative deal for the so-called dreamers would have to include measures more palatable to conservatives. He hinted that a legislative effort to help DACA recipients would need to be linked to efforts to increase border security.“I think there’s a serious humane issue here that needs to be dealt with, but it’s only fitting and reasonable that we also deal with some of the root causes of this problem,” he said, “because what we don’t want to have happen is another DACA problem 10 years from now.”The Senate Judiciary Committee made plans on Wednesday to hold a hearing on DACA next week, though committee aides cautioned that the timing was subject to change.Meanwhile, Democrats urged Mr. Ryan and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, to immediately consider the Dream Act.“We all agree that President Trump’s decision to end DACA is a despicable act of political cowardice,” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, said at a news conference with others from her party.Nearby, Karen Caudillo, a junior at the University of Central Florida who owns an organic cleaning business, wept. Ms. Caudillo, 21, immigrated from Mexico with her family when she was 4.“I’m in tears because I have been fighting for so long to be able to sustain myself and go to school and to be productive,” she said. “And, it just feels like everything is going to waste because I could go back to Mexico.”Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSome families said their choices about whether to rebuild wrecked homes may depend on whether President Trump ends a program for “Dreamers.”HOUSTON — Aracely Martinez-Ramirez sat on the driveway by her rotting home, next to most of the family’s possessions, now slated for the trash: Her sisters’ flowered dresses, their baby dolls, a mud-caked Virgin Mary.She had already battled a flood brought on by Hurricane Harvey and lost the house her family had bought — in full, in cash — just a few days before. Now, it seemed the president was looking to eliminate Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, the program for undocumented immigrants that allows her to work the three jobs that support the family.“Why would he take it away?” said Ms. Martinez-Ramirez, 20, baking in the sour post-storm Texas heat. “What did we ever do wrong to him?”“We love the Dreamers,” the president said as recently as Friday, employing a term many DACA recipients use to refer to themselves. It comes from an earlier effort to help them, a bill called the Dream Act that Congress never passed.This weekend, in a heavily Latino section of northeast Houston, where the soggy innards of hundreds of mobile homes lined the streets, conversations were filled with uncertainty.Bertha Perez, 27, said she applied for DACA protection about two months ago, and was waiting for an answer when the storm hit. Without it, she cannot work legally, and she has two children and two parents with health problems.“My dad, he’s been out of work for three months,” she said. “So we’ve got to figure out how they’re going to get their house together. And if I can’t help them out by getting a job with DACA, I’m pretty much in a bind.”“You feel helpless,” she said, wiping away tears with muddied cleanup gloves. “Well, I feel helpless.”Down the street, Avelino Justo, 24, said DACA had allowed him to find a $25-an-hour welding job and to buy the yellow house he shared with his wife, Ruby Solis, and their two daughters. Then the water rushed in, rendering it uninhabitable. His DACA work permit expires in May, and he has no flood insurance.If Mr. Trump allows the program to continue, Mr. Justo said he will rebuild here. If the program is eliminated, he and his wife and children will probably have to move in with her mother. The family was waiting until Tuesday to make a decision.“This was our dream, you know,” said Ms. Solis, 26, a receptionist at a law firm. “Both mine and his dream has always been: A small home, a cheap home that we could pay off quick, both of us put in a lot of overtime.”“We never expected this to happen,” she said. “This storm just brought us right back down.”A few blocks away, Ms. Martinez-Ramirez said she had moved into her mobile home only a few days before Harvey hit, after she and her mother had saved up and handed over $6,000.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.“I brought Aracely when she was two years old,” said her mother, Maria Ramirez, 43, adding that they had to leave Mexico “so we could eat.”After Ms. Martinez-Ramirez’s father was deported three years ago, she quit college and became the de facto second parent to her three sisters, ages 12, 9 and 7.She works three jobs, and her schedule, she said, is filled. From 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., she sorts used clothing at a warehouse for $8.50 an hour. From 4 to 10 p.m., she sells snow cones from a snack stand, also for $8.50 an hour. And on Sunday, she babysits at church for $7.75 an hour. Because of DACA, which she received in February 2016, she said she can now drive, shop and walk her sisters to the bus stop without fearing arrest. “When I got DACA,” she said, “I felt free.”When the storm came crashing through her neighborhood, Ms. Martinez-Ramirez said, she led her sisters through chest-high water, pulling the smallest ones in a round beach float. The family is now living with a friend from their Baptist church.She returned to the trailer on Sunday to recover the family dishes. Her DACA permit expires in less than six months, and the family’s next move is anyone’s guess.As the sun went down, she watched her sisters play in the muddy driveway.“We’re not bad people,” she said. “We’re just trying to do a better future. For them.”Jack Begg contributed research.Go to Home Page »President Trump is strongly considering a plan that would end the Obama-era program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation, but only after giving Congress six months to come up with a potential replacement for the popular initiative, according to three administration officials briefed on the discussions.Officials working on the plan stressed that Mr. Trump could still change his mind, and some key details had not yet been resolved. Among them: whether beneficiaries of the program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, would be allowed to renew their protected status during the six-month period.The compromise, which could lead to legislation superseding President Barack Obama’s executive order, is intended to address a growing chorus of Republican lawmakers, led by the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, who have implored the White House to keep some form of the program.The temporary solution has been the subject of quiet negotiations between Mr. Trump’s legislative staff and members of Mr. Ryan’s staff, according to an administration official familiar with the talks.But administration aides concede that Congress may be unable to agree on a legislative fix, given the headwinds that previous legislation has run into for years. It is unclear exactly what would happen after six months if Congress does not act.The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, had no response to questions about the negotiations, other than to say Mr. Trump still intended to make some kind of announcement after Labor Day.One official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, said that Mr. Trump was sympathetic to the plight of the young immigrants, known as Dreamers — many have known life only in the United States and have few connections to the countries of their birth — but had been told by Justice Department lawyers that his predecessor’s program would not survive a court challenge.Last week, John F. Kelly, the president’s chief of staff, told associates that he did not see how the State of Texas, which has led the charge against the DACA policy, could proceed with a lawsuit while parts of the state are still underwater from Hurricane Harvey.Democrats and corporate leaders, as well as Republicans, have urged Mr. Trump to preserve the program, and public opinion polls have found overwhelming support for allowing the young immigrants to stay and work in the United States.But Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his former aide, Stephen Miller, who is now the president’s top national policy adviser, have been pushing Mr. Trump to end the program. Both are immigration hard-liners who see ending DACA as a core campaign promise that the president must adhere to.The president has sent wildly divergent signals about the DACA program, publicly agonizing over the fate of the initiative for months. He has vowed to prevent deportations of minors in college while promising to crack down on all forms of immigration. Most of those in Mr. Trump’s White House, including his own family, support lenience toward immigrants in the program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The president’s daughter Ivanka Trump and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who are both advisers to the president, back extending the DACA protections.The policy change would affect about 800,000 undocumented immigrants currently shielded under the DACA program, potentially rescinding their legal status and subjecting them to deportation.Immigration advocacy groups have said that ending the program would be a coldhearted step that would yield no benefit to the nation while endangering large numbers of young people raised in the United States who are seeking to work and pay taxes.“I don’t understand what anybody thinks we gain by taking away people’s ability to work and subject them to deportation,” said Cecilia Muñoz, who helped create the program as the chief domestic policy adviser to Mr. Obama. “The positive benefits of DACA are so abundantly clear.”Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, told Republicans in a Twitter message that “your moment has come” to preserve the program. “Every Democrat will join you,” he said. “Show the courage and grace to save these children, and our nation.”Even as his supporters who favor curtailing illegal immigration have sought to hold him accountable to his campaign promise, Mr. Trump has publicly expressed reservations about ending DACA.In an April interview with The Associated Press, Mr. Trump said that those protected under the program should “rest easy” about their status. He insisted that his administration was “not after the Dreamers, we are after the criminals.” He added, “That is our policy.”But Mr. Sessions has sought to enforce immigration laws as they exist now, and has balked at Mr. Obama’s executive actions in internal debates, administration officials said.Any move to end the DACA program will not improve Mr. Trump’s already testy relations with Silicon Valley tech companies.On Thursday, a group of top tech chiefs — including Timothy D. Cook of Apple, Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon and Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook — signed an open letter to the president and congressional leaders urging them to preserve the program.Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Vindu Goel contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — As an up-and-coming politician in Alabama, Jeff Sessions watched as his state’s poultry industry illegally hired Mexican and Central American immigrants to jobs that had once been filled by poor, unskilled American workers. As a senator, Mr. Sessions argued that displaced American workers like these — not the people replacing them — deserved compassion.“There is nothing compassionate about the failure to enforce immigration laws,” Mr. Sessions said.And on Tuesday, Mr. Sessions not only served as the administration’s spokesman, he also spoke directly to Mr. Trump’s base in a blunt, uncompromising way that the president himself was uncomfortable doing.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The White House needed him to do this because I don’t think Trump would have delivered a convincing performance,” said Mark Krikorian, a Sessions ally and the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. “His own body language and ad-libbing would have undercut his message.”Mr. Trump campaigned on a promise to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, an executive action known as DACA. That program shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants who illegally arrived in the United States as children. But as president, he has chafed at being seen as punishing children for the crimes of their parents.“I think he’s genuinely uncomfortable,” Mr. Krikorian said, referring to the president. “And I’m sure he’s constantly hearing from his daughter, ‘Oh, Daddy, look at the little babies.’”But if the president was torn, Mr. Sessions had no such doubts and has argued that the nation’s compassion is being manipulated and misplaced.The “wind down” of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program will affect an estimated 800,000 individuals.For years, he has encouraged politicians to speak to the millions of working Americans who have been frozen out of the immigration debate. He helped kill bipartisan immigration legislation and delivered impassioned speeches about the moral and legal obligation of strict border enforcement. And he was a key architect of Mr. Trump’s populist “America First” campaign agenda.Tuesday’s speech gave Mr. Sessions his highest profile platform for those arguments. Reading his speech and taking no questions, he revisited many of the themes of his Senate years, declaring that the government’s first obligation is to ensure the well-being of its citizens.“Enforcing the law saves lives, protects communities and taxpayers, and prevents human suffering,” Mr. Sessions said. “Failure to enforce the laws in the past has put our nation at risk of crime, violence and even terrorism.”Roy Beck, whose group, NumbersUSA, advocates restricting immigration, watched the address and saw vintage Mr. Sessions, a man whom he has counted as an ally for decades.“I was loving it,” Mr. Beck said. “I miss watching these on the Senate floor.”The White House and Justice Department said Mr. Sessions made Tuesday’s announcement because it was a question of law.Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Tuesday sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security recommending an end to Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, the Obama-era executive action that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation.“This is clearly the president’s decision and comes out of the White House, but it was interesting to see it was going to be delivered by the attorney general,” Mr. Beck said. “There’s no question the attorney general certainly stepped up to the plate, and, I think, was a tremendous spokesperson for the administration today.”Mr. Trump came to office promising a hard line on immigration. He said he would build a wall along the southern border with Mexico to keep out “rapists,” “killers” and “bad hombres.” And he promised to increase deportations protect American jobs. But Tuesday was not the first time that Mr. Sessions struck a sharper chord than Mr. Trump on the president’s signature issue.Mr. Sessions, born into poverty in the Deep South, nurtured and shaped the immigration views of Mr. Trump, a scion of a New York real estate empire. In January 2015, months before Mr. Trump entered the presidential race, Mr. Sessions issued a lengthy memo to his congressional colleagues and predicted that a Republican candidate who spoke to the working class about immigration could win the White House.“For decades, the American people have begged and pleaded for a just and lawful system of immigration that serves their interests,” Mr. Sessions wrote. He added, “Speak to that constituency — with clarity and compassion — and change the issue forever.”Mr. Sessions revisited those themes on Tuesday.Supporters of DACA say it is cruel to take away a benefit from people who had no choice but to come to the United States. Mr. Sessions instead suggested that it caused “terrible humanitarian consequences” by encouraging people to take young children on a dangerous trip across the border.And speaking to Mr. Trump’s dilemma, Mr. Sessions said that the decision showed no animus to the many people who would soon face the threat of deportation. “This does not mean they are bad people or that our nation disrespects or demeans them in any way,” Mr. Sessions said. “It means we are properly enforcing our laws.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.Go to Home Page »Good evening. Here’s the latest.__________The top items include hurricane aid, the debt limit, rewriting the tax code, shielding the “dreamers,” children’s health insurance and more.A House vote on emergency aid for Hurricane Harvey victims could come as soon as tomorrow. One possible wrinkle: The White House and some Republicans want the aid tied to an increase in the federal debt limit, but a conservative bloc opposes that. Above, Beaumont, Tex., today._____President Xi Jinping, above, must avoid appearing to buckle to U.S. demands, but also deter moves toward a destabilizing war on the Korean Peninsula.__________Prosecutors in the country have opened corruption investigations into several Olympics-related infrastructure projects. But the search was the first official sign that the authorities are investigating the possibility that the Olympic bid may have been bought._______________Not only is crying as natural and justifiable as breathing — the two acts are physically, neurologically, primally intertwined. And in some animals, babies that can’t cry can be ignored, to death._____“Each sentence in it is a Cirque du Soleil leap into a net that only he can see,” the critic writes. But he says that the book gets good when it describes a Trump-like villain.Have a great night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.See More »Go to Home Page »During an interview with The New York Times at the inaugural TimesTalk D.C., Speaker Paul D. Ryan discussed his plan to pass tax reform legislation by the end of the year.Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeAbout 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Tuesday ordered an end to the Obama-era program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation, calling it an “amnesty-first approach” and urging Congress to pass a replacement before he begins phasing out its protections in six months.As early as March, officials said, some of the 800,000 young adults brought to the United States illegally as children who qualify for the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, will become eligible for deportation. The five-year-old policy allows them to remain without fear of immediate removal from the country and gives them the right to work legally.Mr. Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who announced the change at the Justice Department, both used the aggrieved language of anti-immigrant activists, arguing that those in the country illegally are lawbreakers who hurt native-born Americans by usurping their jobs and pushing down wages.Mr. Trump said in a statement that he was driven by a concern for “the millions of Americans victimized by this unfair system.” Mr. Sessions said the program had “denied jobs to hundreds of thousands of Americans by allowing those same illegal aliens to take those jobs.”President Trump is winding down DACA. But Trump and his administration have at times suggested that this wouldn’t happen.Former President Barack Obama, who had warned that any threat to the program would prompt him to speak out, called his successor’s decision “wrong,” “self-defeating” and “cruel.”Both he and Mr. Trump said the onus was now on lawmakers to protect the young immigrants as part of a broader overhaul of the immigration system that would also toughen enforcement.Mr. Trump also warned lawmakers that if they do not legislate a program similar to the one Mr. Obama created through executive authority, he will “revisit this issue!” — a statement sure to inject more uncertainty into the ultimate fate of the young, undocumented immigrants who have been benefiting from the program since 2012.Conservatives praised Mr. Trump’s move, though some expressed frustration that he had taken so long to rescind the program and that the gradual phaseout could mean that some immigrants retained protection from deportation until October 2019.The White House portrayed the decision as a matter of legal necessity, given that nine Republican state attorneys general had threatened to sue to halt the program immediately if Mr. Trump did not act.Months of internal White House debate preceded the move, as did the president’s public display of his own conflicted feelings. He once referred to DACA recipients as “incredible kids.”The president’s wavering was reflected in a day of conflicting messages from him and his team. Hours after his statement was released, Mr. Trump told reporters that he had “great love” for the beneficiaries of the program he had just ended.“I have a love for these people, and hopefully now Congress will be able to help them and do it properly,” he said. But he notably did not endorse bipartisan legislation to codify the program’s protections, leaving it unclear whether he would back such a solution.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump’s aides were negotiating late into Monday evening with one another about precisely how the plan to wind down the program would be executed. Until Tuesday morning, some aides believed the president had settled on a plan that would be more generous, giving more of the program’s recipients the option to renew their protections.In addition to the public statement from Mr. Sessions and a White House question-and-answer session, the president was ready on Tuesday with the lengthy written statement, and officials at the Justice and Homeland Security Departments provided detailed briefings and distributed information to reporters in advance.Mr. Trump sought to portray his move as a compassionate effort to head off the expected legal challenge that White House officials said would have forced an immediate and highly disruptive end to the program. But he also denounced the policy, saying it helped spark a “massive surge” of immigrants from Central America, some of whom went on to become members of violent gangs like MS-13. Some immigration critics contend that programs like DACA, started under Mr. Obama, encouraged Central Americans to enter the United States, hoping to stay permanently. Tens of thousands of migrants surged across America’s southern border in the summer of 2014, many of them children fleeing dangerous gangs.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, indicated that Mr. Trump would support legislation to “fix” the DACA program, as long as Congress passed it as part of a broader immigration overhaul to strengthen the border, protect American jobs and enhance enforcement.“The president wants to see responsible immigration reform, and he wants that to be part of it,” Ms. Sanders said, referring to a permanent solution for the young immigrants. “Something needs to be done. It’s Congress’s job to do that. And we want to be part of that process.”Later on Tuesday, Marc Short, Mr. Trump’s top legislative official, told reporters on Capitol Hill that the White House would release principles for such a plan in the coming days, input that at least one key member of Congress indicated would be crucial.“It is important that the White House clearly outline what kind of legislation the president is willing to sign,” Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said in a statement. “We have no time to waste on ideas that do not have the votes to pass or that the president won’t sign.”The announcement was an effort by Mr. Trump to honor the law-and-order message of his campaign, which included a repeated pledge to end Mr. Obama’s immigration policy, while seeking to avoid the emotionally charged and politically perilous consequences of targeting a sympathetic group of immigrants.The blame-averse president told a confidante over the past few days that he realized that he had gotten himself into a politically untenable position. As late as one hour before the decision was to be announced, administration officials privately expressed concern that Mr. Trump might not fully grasp the details of the steps he was about to take, and when he discovered their full impact, would change his mind, according to a person familiar with their thinking who was not authorized to comment on it and spoke on condition of anonymity.The “wind down” of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program will affect an estimated 800,000 individuals.But ultimately, the president followed through on his campaign pledge at the urging of Mr. Sessions and other hard-line members inside his White House, including Stephen Miller, his top domestic policy adviser.The announcement started the clock on revoking legal status from those protected under the program.Officials said DACA recipients whose legal status expires on or before March 5 would be able to renew their two-year period of legal status as long as they apply by Oct. 5. But the announcement means that if Congress fails to act, immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children could face deportation as early as March 6 to countries where many left at such young ages that they have no memory of them.Immigration officials said they did not intend to actively target the young immigrants as priorities for deportation, though without the program’s protection, they would be considered subject to removal from the United States and would no longer be able to work legally.Officials said some of the young immigrants could be prevented from returning to the United States if they traveled abroad.Immigration advocates took little comfort from the administration’s assurances, describing the president’s decision as deeply disturbing and vowing to shift their demands for protections to Capitol Hill.Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law Center, called Mr. Trump’s decision “nothing short of hypocrisy, cruelty and cowardice.” Maria Praeli, a recipient of protection under the program, criticized Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump for talking “about us as if we don’t matter and as if this isn’t our home.”The Mexican foreign ministry issued a statement saying the “Mexican government deeply regrets” Mr. Trump’s decision.As recently as July, Mr. Trump expressed skepticism about the prospect of a broad legislative deal.“What I’d like to do is a comprehensive immigration plan,” he told reporters. “But our country and political forces are not ready yet.”As for DACA, he said: “There are two sides of a story. It’s always tough.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »President Trump has announced that he is ending the program that allows "Dreamers" -- young undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children -- to study and work in the country without fear of deportation.If you are an educator who works with undocumented students, we’d like to hear from you. We may follow up with you to hear more about your story. Your name and comments might be published, but your contact information will not be.First and last preferred, please.Thank you for your submission.Supported byOp-Ed ContributorOAKLAND, Calif. — Maybe you’ve heard this story line before. With the blithe stroke of a pen and without congressional approval, President Obama gave legal status to a vast population of immigrants who entered the country unlawfully — because he wanted to, and because he found a way.I’m referring to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. That program is called DACA, which until the recent presidential campaign was an acronym known by few beyond the nation’s immigrant communities or the Washington beltway. Now DACA is trending news, and not in a good way.This narrative about an initiative that has given temporary haven and work authorization to more than 700,000 undocumented minors, the so-called Dreamers, still has critics howling about presidential overreach, about brazen nose-thumbing at the rule of law and about encouraging others to breach the borders of the United States.But there’s a problem with this take on the program. It is dead wrong. While much has been made about our incoming president possibly eliminating DACA with his own swift pen stroke, there has been scant attention paid to the careful, rational and lawful reasons for creating the program, which, especially now that its future is in doubt, merit a closer look.I arrived in the department as a former United States attorney, attorney general and governor of a border state, and I already knew that many of our immigration policies made little, if any, sense because they did not prioritize the use of enforcement resources.As secretary, I changed enforcement policies to focus on those immigrants who posed a national security or public safety threat, such as gang members and violent felons, and not on veterans, nursing mothers and those with longstanding ties to their communities.Prioritizing the use of resources in law enforcement is nothing new. It is known as “prosecutorial discretion,” and we can see it all around us — from local police departments deciding whom to pull over instead of stopping every speeding car to federal prosecutors focusing on larger financial fraud instead of going after every bad check.Indeed, the authority of the federal government to exercise prosecutorial discretion has been repeatedly recognized by the Supreme Court, including in a seminal opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia.Our efforts to use immigration enforcement resources wisely made a real difference. But when it became clear that Congress was not going to take action on comprehensive immigration reform, I realized that more needed to be done with respect to one special population — Dreamers.Dreamers, among other requirements, came to the United States as children, developed deep roots in the country and have become valuable contributors to their community. They must be in high school or have a diploma, or be a veteran, and they cannot have been convicted of a felony or major misdemeanor.Contrary to the sometimes overheated political rhetoric, the program is not the same as amnesty. Each case is assessed on its own merits to ensure the applicant meets the criteria and poses no security threat. This is similar, but not identical, to how a prosecutor decides to charge a case. The program does not grant categorical relief to an entire group.Today, there are nearly three-quarters of a million Dreamers who no longer have to constantly fear an encounter with an immigration enforcement agent. Instead, they can live, study and work freely. Many are now studying at the system I lead, the University of California.They are the Berkeley graduate who emigrated to San Francisco at the age of 9 and is now in the system’s medical school there. They are the U.C.L.A. student who, at the age of 12, worked in construction to help support his family, an experience that led him to study urban planning and community development.Some of the debate about the future of DACA suggests that it provides Dreamers an official immigration status or a pathway to citizenship. As the memorandum establishing the program made clear, this is not the case. Only Congress has the power to confer those rights.Rather, the program reflects the executive branch doing what it properly does every day — making decisions about how to best use resources within the framework of existing law. There is no reason to abandon these sensible priorities now.Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security from 2009 to 2013, is the president of the University of California.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSMEXICO CITY —  The U.S. secretary for homeland security has announced three agreements with Mexican officials during a visit to Mexico's capital.Kirstjen Nielsen says two of the agreements involve commercial shipments across the shared border. She says they are meant to make customs inspections more fluid through "cargo pre-inspections" and to tighten controls on blocking contraband goods.She says the third agreement calls for coordination to streamline the importation of agricultural goods, specifically regarding health inspections.Nielsen spoke Monday after meeting with Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray. She says the two talked about fighting cross-border criminal organizations.Videgaray says they also spoke about immigrants into the U.S. as well as the status of people in the DACA program. He noted that "there are areas where we have different opinions."Go to Home Page »Supported byOpinion ColumnistNo president in my lifetime has made me think as much about leadership as Donald Trump has. That’s because no president in my lifetime has embodied the ideal of leadership as completely as he embodies its antonym.A leader articulates a clear vision and set of principles, which become a well-lighted path that well-intentioned people can tread. Trump bellows, babbles and contradicts himself, achieving an incoherence that no level-headed person can follow.Hello? If DACA is a travesty, its assassins are heroes. But then, little about Trump’s DACA gyrations makes sense or respects facts. Democrats have indeed tried, imperfectly, for progress on DACA. Trump and other Republicans have thwarted them.Is his America a country with a heart or only a spleen? Depends on the hour and audience. Let us not forget how, a short while back, he went from calling for an immigration “bill of love” when the television cameras were rolling to ranting about “shithole countries” when they weren’t. This was the opposite of leadership. It was the quintessence of Trump.“What’s truly shocking is how much petty graft has sprung up,” Chait notes, but not all of it is petty and none of it is shocking. The tone is set at the top, by a boss who maintains serious conflicts of interest, glories in nepotism and treats the presidency as a gilded marketing opportunity. Trump’s example is a green light for corruption.A leader knows whose counsel to seek and whose to be wary of. Trump knows only the siren’s song of sycophants saying what he wants to hear. He’s not interested in a diversity of input and information. One obsequious, affirming channel will do.He doesn’t do what a leader should and challenge himself — and the rest of us — to be bigger. He exploits his privilege to be as small as possible. With all the world watching and potentially taking cues from him, he crassly insults just about anyone who crosses him. It’s equal parts pathology and sport.A leader tells the truth. I needn’t extend that thought by so much as a syllable.Other presidents had their fictions. Their flaws. Trump is hardly soiling some pristine tradition. To suggest so is to validate his belief that he’s persecuted.But to pretend that he’s an unremarkable link in the chain is crazier, and that’s not merely because of his unconventional résumé and attachment to Twitter. He lacks the flashes of valor and moments of inspiration that immediate predecessors had.Will there be anything like that with Trump? Some memory of dignity or grace? The question, I fear, is rhetorical. While those presidents sometimes failed to lead, he doesn’t even try.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — President Trump has begun a new push for legislation to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States, White House officials said Monday, arguing that lax laws have drawn a flood of migrants to the country’s borders.The proposals include toughening laws to make it more difficult to apply for or be granted asylum in the United States, stripping protections for children arriving illegally without their parents so they can be turned back at the border or quickly removed, and allowing families to be detained for longer periods while they await decisions from immigration authorities about their fates.While the steps have long been advocated by Mr. Trump’s hard-line aides, including Stephen Miller, his senior policy adviser, focusing on them now opens a new front in the president’s push for immigration restrictions.“A whole big wasted procedure must take place,” Mr. Trump added. “Mexico & Canada have tough immigration laws, whereas ours are an Obama joke.”The message capped a second consecutive day of presidential tweeting on immigration policy that was touched off on Sunday morning when Mr. Trump began venting about “dangerous caravans” of migrants he said were headed to the United States.“DACA is dead because the Democrats didn’t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon,” Mr. Trump said. In fact, the program applies only to immigrants who arrived in the United States before 2007.Later, surrounded by children on the South Lawn of the White House for the annual Easter egg roll festivities, Mr. Trump again put the blame on Democrats, who he said had abandoned the “Dreamers,” as the undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and have benefited from DACA are sometimes called.“The Democrats have really let them down, they’ve really let them down,” Mr. Trump said in response to a question shouted by a reporter, as young children crowded around him at a picnic table where he was signing their artwork. “They had this great opportunity, and Democrats have really let them down — it’s a shame.”“Now people are taking advantage of DACA,” Mr. Trump went on. “It should have never happened.”The president was venting about the failure of bipartisan talks to enshrine DACA’s protections in law. The negotiations became necessary after Mr. Trump moved last fall to end the program, which had been created unilaterally by President Barack Obama.Those deliberations have gone nowhere despite Mr. Trump’s stated willingness to provide a path to citizenship for nearly two million undocumented immigrants who could be considered eligible for the program. Democrats offered last month to provide $25 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump advocates, in exchange for such an extension, but White House officials rejected the deal, demanding additional measures to curb legal and illegal immigration.Democrats said Monday he was deliberately misrepresenting the issue.“Instead of working productively to find a bipartisan solution for Dreamers, the president is attempting to rewrite history with a dangerous, anti-immigrant gaslighting campaign aimed at confusing the American people, slandering the DACA program and disparaging asylum seekers,” said Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, Democrat of New Mexico and the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.But Mr. Trump’s advisers said that in referring to people “taking advantage of DACA,” the president was alluding to Central American migrants who have been duped by human smugglers into making a dangerous trek north in the belief they could enter the United States before lawmakers enact permissive new laws.The notion has taken hold, they said, during a season when migration flows from Central America to the United States typically accelerate.In a conference call on Monday afternoon — convened in part to explain the context of Mr. Trump’s tweets — administration and White House officials said they were pushing for changes to so-called catch-and-release policies that essentially mandate that many people who are detained arriving illegally in the United States be released from custody while awaiting a decision on whether they can stay.They called for changing a law that affords broad protections to children illegally entering the United States alone who are not from Canada and Mexico, so that they could be promptly removed as long as it is determined that they are not victims of human trafficking.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Another senior official outlined modifications Mr. Trump wants to see in asylum policies to limit the number of people claiming to be political refugees who can apply for protection in the United States.Among the changes would be making it more difficult for asylum seekers to demonstrate “credible fear” about returning to their home countries before they are given a chance to stay in the United States and adding more reasons — such as membership in a gang or drunken driving accusations — that asylum seekers could be deemed inadmissible.A senior administration official who detailed the asylum changes said they were meant in part to address a backlog of hundreds of thousands of immigration court cases that can delay hearings for years, allowing undocumented immigrants to be released for long periods and to live legally in the United States while they await decisions on their cases.As part of that effort, the Justice Department told immigration judges on Monday that it would impose new quotas on their work, requiring them to complete 700 cases each year in an effort to speed deportation decisions and eliminate the backlog. That is a slight increase from the average of 678 cases a year the judges completed from 2011 to 2016.Monday’s briefing also suggested that Mr. Trump’s yearlong quest to find a politically palatable solution to the DACA conundrum — which he has often presented as a moral dilemma — is viewed by some of his advisers as a risky gambit that would be justified only with the most restrictive of conditions.One senior White House official said that even a debate in Congress over granting a “generous immigration benefit” such as DACA creates a “major pull factor” for new waves of illegal immigrants.In February, the White House and the Department of Homeland Security lashed out against a bipartisan proposal to codify DACA protections, arguing that it would have eviscerated immigration enforcement for people arriving in the United States before June 2018.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, briefed Mr. Trump on the migration situation last week after returning from a trip to Mexico to meet with President Enrique Peña Nieto and other top Mexican officials, one White House official said, and he was concerned by what he heard.Immigration advocacy groups dismissed Mr. Trump’s latest moves as a play to his core supporters that would ultimately backfire for his party, driving away voters.“When Trump plays to his base with his xenophobia and bigotry, it drives away tolerant suburban voters, threatens America’s perishable crop industry and energizes young people and voters of color,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice.Katie Benner and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »“We looked at the veto. I looked very seriously at the veto. I was thinking about doing the veto,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House. “But because of the incredible gains that we’ve been able to make for the military, that overrode any of our — any of our thinking.”But his explanation did not accurately describe just why those gains were enough to ultimately approve the spending bill. Nor did it correctly demonstrate why the legislation did not include programs that he had prioritized. Here’s a fact-check.This is imprecise and requires more context.The Pentagon requested, and Congress enacted, pay increases smaller than the index’s growth rate from 2014 through 2016. But both before and after that time — from 2011 to 2013 and 2017 to 2018 — pay for troops rose at the exact rate as the index grew.Mr. Trump’s proposed budgets for 2017 and 2018 had requested pay increases of 1.6 percent and 2.1 percent — rates that were lower than the statutory formula, and that were ultimately ignored by Congress.This needs context.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It’s worth noting that military spending has decreased in recent years, after the United States withdrew combat troops from Iraq in 2011.War-related spending aside, the Pentagon base budget alone was still larger in 2017 than it was in 2007 or 1997. Over all, the United States spends more on its military than the next seven countries combined.This is misleading.It is highly misleading to suggest that Democrats “fought” efforts to solidify the program into law. Democratic leaders have rejected Mr. Trump’s demand to pair the program with funding for a border wall, but that is not nearly the same as not wanting a legislative solution at all.See More »Go to Home Page »Fact-checkThree days of presidential tweets contained many false and misleading accusations.Supported byIn a dozen Twitter missives over the past three days, President Trump has accused Democrats of failing to protect young undocumented immigrants, criticized Mexico for its role in illegal immigration to the United States and warned of “caravans” of people headed toward the southern border.At least half of his statements were inaccurate. Here’s a fact-check.These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!Several states won injunctions in January and February requiring the federal government to accept applications from current DACA recipients to renew their resident status. On Tuesday, citing data from United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Attorney General Xavier Becerra of California estimated that at least 30,000 of the so-called Dreamers have been able to renew their DACA status since January.Democratic leaders have rejected Mr. Trump’s demand to pair the program with funding for a border wall, but that is not nearly the same as not wanting a legislative solution at all.Mr. Trump first chastised Mexico for not preventing Central American migrants from reaching the United States. But a day later, he praised Mexico for its “strong border laws.”A White House official said Mr. Trump was referring to Mexican exports that enter the United States tax-free because of the North American Free Trade Agreement.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Monday declined an unusual White House request that it immediately decide whether the Trump administration can shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The move meant that the immigrants, often called “Dreamers,” could remain in legal limbo for many months unless Congress acts to make their status permanent.The Supreme Court’s decision not to hear the administration’s appeal was expected, as no appeals court has yet ruled on the issue. The court’s order was brief, gave no reasons and noted no dissents. It said it expected the appeals court to “proceed expeditiously to decide this case.”The Supreme Court’s move will, as a practical matter, temporarily shield the young immigrants who already had signed up for the DACA program from immediate deportation, and allow them to keep working legally in the United States. Their status lasts for two years and is renewable.The court’s decision not to hear the appeal could also relieve the immediate political pressure on lawmakers to permanently address the status of those immigrants, or to deal with the additional one million Dreamers who had never signed up for the DACA program. They remain at risk of deportation if immigration agents find them.Even as he ended the DACA program, Mr. Trump had called upon Congress to give the young immigrants legal status — and an eventual path to citizenship — before the program was scheduled to expire March 5.Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.But that proposal has been bogged down in partisan gridlock as members of Congress argue about broader changes to the United States’ immigration system that the president and his conservative allies in Congress have demanded as part of any deal to address the future of the young immigrants.Now, the court’s action is likely to lessen the urgency on Capitol Hill over the issue, making it even more probable that Congress will take no action as the legal process plays out.As a possible fallback plan after the Senate’s failure this month, lawmakers could negotiate a short-term patch that would continue the DACA program for a few years, perhaps in exchange for partial funding of Mr. Trump’s wall. Such a deal could be tucked into a broad spending bill that lawmakers must approve by March 23, when government funding is set to expire.But the court’s move could undercut any momentum to push for even a very narrow deal in the next few weeks, and there has been little evidence of progress toward any kind of bipartisan pact that would be acceptable to Mr. Trump. House Republican leaders still appear focused on a hard-line conservative immigration bill that would be a nonstarter in the Senate.“While the court’s decision appears to have pushed this deadline beyond March, House Republicans are actively working toward a solution,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.Mr. Trump has repeatedly condemned Democrats in recent days, accusing them of not caring about the young immigrants. In one recent Twitter post, he said Republicans “stand ready to make a deal” to protect the Dreamers from deportation.Dems are no longer talking DACA! “Out of sight, out of mind,” they say. DACA beneficiaries should not be happy. Nancy Pelosi truly doesn’t care about them. Republicans stand ready to make a deal!But Democrats, and some Republicans, accuse Mr. Trump and his hard-line conservative White House advisers of using the Dreamers as leverage for changes to the immigration system that conservative, anti-immigrant activists have long sought.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.The case at the Supreme Court was brought in California by five sets of plaintiffs. They included four states — California, Maine, Maryland and Minnesota — and Janet Napolitano, the president of the University of California. As secretary of homeland security in the Obama administration, Ms. Napolitano signed the document that established the program in 2012.The judges acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations. But they said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.The judges said the two programs differed in important ways, undermining the administration’s legal analysis. They noted, too, that Mr. Trump had issued conflicting statements about the DACA program.That procedure, called “certiorari before judgment,” is used rarely, typically in cases involving national crises like President Harry S. Truman’s seizure of the steel industry and President Richard M. Nixon’s refusal to turn over tape recordings to a special prosecutor.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a statement, the Justice Department said it would continue to make its legal arguments as the case proceeded.“While we were hopeful for a different outcome, the Supreme Court very rarely grants certiorari before judgment, though in our view, it was warranted for the extraordinary injunction requiring the Department of Homeland Security to maintain DACA,” said Devin M. O’Malley, a spokesman for the department. “We will continue to defend D.H.S.’s lawful authority to wind down DACA in an orderly manner.”Lawyers for the challengers expressed satisfaction with Monday’s developments.“We are pleased that the Supreme Court is allowing the normal appellate process to run its course,” said Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., who represents people affected by the program. “DACA is a lawful and important program that protects young people who came to this country as children and who know this country as their only home.”“Since 2012, the DACA program has allowed hundreds of thousands of young people to receive deferred action, work authorization and other benefits,” they wrote. “The district court’s preliminary injunction only partially and temporarily restores the situation that existed prior to petitioners’ abrupt decision to terminate the program — and only for individuals who had already received deferred action under DACA.”“Petitioners are entitled to a prompt appeal,” the brief said, “but there is no imminent deadline posing a critical threat to the public interest of the sort that might justify bypassing the normal channels for that review.”Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byIt’s no wonder that in the hall of mirrors that passes for the Trump administration’s legal policy shop, this case, U.S. Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of the University of California, looms large. Judge Alsup and, most recently, Judge Garaufis in Brooklyn, have called the president’s hand. Their analysis is a subtle one. Judge Alsup suggests, and Judge Garaufis says explicitly, that the president has the legal right to terminate the DACA program if he does so properly. What was improper about the order issued in September by the acting secretary of homeland security to wind DACA down in six months? Judge Alsup observed that the administration based its action not on a policy judgment, which might have rendered the termination unreviewable in court, but on a “mistake of law.” The judge noted that President Trump had repeatedly said and tweeted that he liked the Dreamers and wanted to help them. These statements left Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other die hard anti-immigrant presidential advisers with a problem. Disabled by the president himself from an all-out attack on DACA on policy grounds, they had to come up with another rationale for ending the program.What they came up with was something called “litigation risk.” It turned out that Texas and allied states, which had successfully gone to court to stop the Obama administration from expanding the DACA program to include more than four million parents of DACA-eligible children, had conveniently offered to sue to undo DACA itself. This lawsuit would succeed because the program was in fact illegal, Attorney General Sessions declared in a memo aimed at providing a seeming law-based, and therefore neutral, justification for ending the program.But that “pithy conclusion” of illegality was not the attorney general’s to reach, Judge Alsup said in his opinion, explaining that “determining illegality is a quintessential role of the courts.” He said the current DACA program and the earlier proposed expansion that the lower courts had invalidated were sufficiently distinct as to make improper a simple extrapolation from one to the other. The judge labeled the “litigation risk” explanation a “post hoc rationalization” — an explanation made up after the fact to fit a desired outcome.“Courts, of course, may not accept post hoc rationalizations for agency action,” he said. At the least, he added, when the government “abruptly changes course and terminates a program on which so many people rely,” the Administrative Procedure Act “requires a more detailed justification.” The injunction Judge Alsup issued is nationwide in scope. “Our country has a strong interest in the uniform application of immigration law,” he said, adding that limiting the injunction to individual states or plaintiffs would “simply provoke many thousands of individual lawsuits all over the country.”Even if the justices find Judge Alsup’s analysis questionable and the case surpassingly important, there is an obvious reason for the court to stay its hand: the possibility, however remote, of congressional action during the months it would surely take the court to issue a decision. Recruited to a walk-on role in the other branches’ drama, the justices could well find themselves exposed on an empty stage. At least this is how it looks to me, from the outside. Will it look that way from inside the justices’ private conference? I don’t know, but I’m sure of this: The future of more than the Dreamers is at stake.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSPALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S."Mexico has got to help us at the border," Trump, holding his wife's hand, told reporters before the couple attended Easter services at an Episcopal church near his Palm Beach home. "If they're not going to help us at the border, it's a very sad thing between our two countries.""A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA," he added.Former President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to provide temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought here as children. Trump ended the program last year, but gave Congress six months to pass legislation enshrining it. A deal has so far proved elusive and Trump has blamed Democrats.It was not immediately clear what Trump was referring to when he said people are coming to take advantage of the program.The Department of Homeland Security is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed. The Obama administration allowed signups during a set period of time, and the program is closed to new entrants.Proposed DACA deals crafted by lawmakers and rejected by Trump also were not open to new participants.Trump did not explain what he meant when questioned by reporters as he entered the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea with the first lady and his daughter Tiffany. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for clarification.Trump, when addressing reporters briefly before entering the church, again blamed Democrats for failing to protect the "Dreamers.""They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it. They had a great, great chance, but we'll have to take a look because Mexico has got to help us at the border. They flow right through Mexico. They send them into the United States. It can't happen that way anymore."Trump promised during the 2016 presidential campaign to build a Southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated him by not moving as quickly as he wants to provide money for construction.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The president also complained on Twitter that border patrol agents can't do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweeted that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He did not offer details to back his comment.The president's tweets came after Fox News' "Fox & Friends" reported early Sunday on what it said is a group of 1,200 immigrants, mostly from Honduras, headed to the U.S. The segment was a follow-up to a report by Buzzfeed News on hundreds of Central Americans making their way through Mexico in hopes that American authorities will grant them asylum or be absent when they attempt to cross the border.The Fox headline was "Caravan of illegal immigrants headed to U.S." The president is known to watch the cable TV program in the morning.Brandon Judd, leader of the union representing border patrol agents, predicted on "Fox & Friends" that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for what he described as immigration reform. Judd also said Congress needs to pass tougher laws, an idea Trump appeared to echo, and create more bed space for immigration authorities to house people.Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, chided Trump over the tone of the tweets."A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn't take hope from innocent children who call America home. Remember, today is Easter Sunday," tweeted Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Trump critic who challenged him for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination.Arizona Republican Sen. Jeff Flake, another Trump foe, urged Congress to take up the fight for Dreamers."There are plenty of lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who stand ready to work with the administration on legislation to protect DACA kids who call America home," he tweeted. "Let's do it."Sunday's church visit was Trump's first public appearance with his wife since CBS' "60 Minutes" aired an interview the previous Sunday with Stormy Daniels, the adult-film star who says she had sex with Trump in 2006, early in his marriage and a few months after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son. The White House says Trump denies the affair. Mrs. Trump spent most of the past week in Palm Beach with her son.The Trumps returned to Washington later Sunday.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report.___Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — An immigration debate on Tuesday in the Senate that promised to be freewheeling and democratic got off instead to a rocky start, with Democrats and Republicans in a standoff over how the debate should proceed.But even as the floor debate faltered, a bipartisan group of senators was working behind the scenes to draft an immigration proposal that could garner the 60 votes necessary to overcome a filibuster.“Negotiations on DACA have begun,” the president wrote. “Republicans want to make a deal and Democrats say they want to make a deal. Wouldn’t it be great if we could finally, after so many years, solve the DACA puzzle. This will be our last chance, there will never be another opportunity! March 5.”But in the Capitol, Mr. McConnell and his Democratic counterpart, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, were unable to come to terms on an agreement that would get the debate underway in earnest.Mr. McConnell sought to open with a vote on legislation to punish so-called sanctuary cities, which refuse to cooperate with federal immigration officials. But Mr. Schumer objected, on the grounds that such a measure is unrelated to DACA. Without the Democratic leader’s consent, debate cannot begin until midnight Tuesday, or very early Wednesday morning. Republicans were left fuming in frustration.“This is the debate they said they wanted,” Mr. McConnell, sounding irked, told reporters Tuesday. “I said we’d have an open and fair process. We’re trying to do that, and the sooner we get started, the better because we need to wrap up this week.”Whether senators can stick to that schedule remains an open question. The chamber is scheduled to be in recess next week, but some lawmakers are urging that the immigration debate be continued after the recess if no resolution is reached by Friday.“The preference obviously is to finish,” said Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona. “You never want to have a break right in the middle of a debate. That’s not optimal. But it’s better than letting it die.”Immigration is one of the most difficult and contentious issues to come before Congress. The last time the Senate debated immigration, in 2013, the matter was on the floor for weeks. It culminated in Senate passage of a comprehensive immigration overhaul with 68 votes, but the measure never got a vote in the House.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This time, Mr. Trump has insisted that any bill address what the White House is calling “four pillars”: protecting the DACA recipients; beefing up border security, including funding for the president’s proposed border wall; ending or severely limiting family-based migration; and doing away with the diversity visa lottery, which is aimed at encouraging immigration from underrepresented nations.Mr. McConnell has embraced a Republican plan that would meet the president’s conditions. But the proposal, drafted by a group of Republicans led by Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, does not appear to have garnered the backing of 60 senators.Other proposals are also floating around the Capitol, including a “skinny bill” or “two-pillar bill” that would pair an extension of the DACA program with money for border security. Some Democrats say that is the path most likely to produce a measure that 60 senators can support.“I’m very optimistic,” said Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a member of the bipartisan group, called the Common Sense Coalition, that has been negotiating behind the scenes. “I think at the end of the day, what it’s going to be is a simple solution. You’re going to take care of the DACA kids and their parents in exchange for doing the wall.”But Mr. Trump has said he would not sign such a bill, and some senators say they consider the “skinny” approach a waste of time.“They think that the best we can do is a baby step,” Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, said, referring to those who are advocating a narrower bill. “And I don’t agree with that. I want to solve this problem. I think this is a case where moderation is for monks. Let’s go solve the problem.”Thomas Kaplan and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »As Congress debates the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, which is set to expire on March 5, the rejected applicants have been scrambling to overcome the government’s error. Many have already lost their work permits, causing a cascade of consequences.Mauricio Noroña, a lawyer for the Immigrant Community Law Center in Manhattan called the 1,900 figure, “astounding.” He saw the devastating effects the mail delays had on one of his clients, whom he declined to name, saying she was afraid of repercussions from the government.“She lost her job, lost her apartment, and is now temporarily staying with family in her home state,” Mr. Noroña said. “More worrisome, our client is at risk of being placed in removal proceedings pending her DACA renewal, a process that may take months because U.S.C.I.S. didn’t commit to expedite affected cases.”A spokesman for the immigration agency, Steve Blando, said that the agency has given people 33 days to resubmit their renewal forms, but would not make the applications a priority. Nor would the agency extend their current permits to cover any gaps, or even make the permit, when received, retroactive.“There is no expedited processing for deferred action under DACA,” he said in a statement. “These DACA requests will be processed in accordance with standard procedures. An individual’s deferred action under the DACA policy begins the day U.S.C.I.S. approves the request and is generally valid for two years from the date of issuance.”Some applications sat for weeks without being delivered by the Postal Service, others arrived on time at designated collection centers in Chicago, Dallas and Phoenix, but were not processed on time because of courier problems.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This week, U.S.C.I.S. said it sent letters to more than “1,700 individuals,” and that more than 200 applicants resubmitted their renewals before the government invited them to do so.“The fact that that many individuals were affected shows that the deadline they imposed — which we always said was too short and too arbitrary — was too short even for the government to perform its functions properly,” Camille Mackler, the director of legal initiatives for the New York Immigration Coalition.The government is taking the blame for nearly half of those.Hasan Shafiqullah, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society of New York said he thought the number might even be higher.One of his clients whose application was rejected lost his DACA protections on Dec. 1, another lost them on Dec. 23, and two more will lose theirs soon. Without DACA permits, the immigrants cannot legally work and may not be eligible for college scholarships.According to the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank, about 122 people have been losing their DACA permits per day, a number calculated before the extent of the mail delays were known. The full effect of the mail delays may be felt for months — or even years.If an immigrant lives in the country illegally for any amount of time, it could have harmful repercussions, Ms. Mackler and Mr. Shafiqullah said. It could make it especially difficult for those who have turned 18 after their DACA permits expire to get green cards from employers.“Typically DACA folks are low income, and for anyone, the inability to work is difficult, especially people living paycheck to paycheck — it can be devastating,” Mr. Shafiqullah said.See More »Go to Home Page »Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Monday:1. 'NO MORE DACA DEAL!'President Trump insists a program to help "Dreamer" immigrants is finished, and he threatens a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S.2. WHO MAKES IT CLEAR HE WAS FIREDFormer Veterans Affairs chief David Shulkin says he had no plans to resign, and was only told of Trump's decision to replace him shortly before the president's Twitter announcement.3. IN EASTER MESSAGE, POPE APPEALS FOR PEACE IN SYRIAThe pontiff calls for a "swift end" to seven years of carnage.4. WHERE MLK LEGACY STANDS, 50 YEARS AFTER HIS DEATHMartin Luther King's work continues today in a new generation protesting many of the same issues the civil rights icon confronted: inequality, police brutality and poverty.5. OUTRAGE SIMMERS OVER 64 DEATHS IN SIBERIAN MALL FIRE"This tragedy reflects all of Russia's problems — the corruption of officials who closed their eyes to problems with fire safety, uncoordinated work of the special services, the imperviousness of authorities," says Rasim Yaraliyev, head of a citizen's group.6. WHAT 8.5-TON OBJECT IS HURTLING TOWARD EARTHChina's defunct Tiangong 1 space station is expected to re-enter the atmosphere within hours.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. COSBY RETRIAL SET TO STARTThe #MeToo movement will loom over the proceedings when jury selection gets underway in Bill Cosby's sexual assault retrial.8. SAKS, LORD & TAYLOR SUFFER DATA BREACHESThe disclosure comes after a New York-based security firm reveals that a hacking group began boasting on dark websites that it is ready to sell up to 5 million stolen credit and debit cards.9. ROCK & ROLL HOF TO RECEIVE $4.1M GRANTPNC Bank pledges the money to support free events, interactive exhibit storytelling and live music.10. 'READY PLAYER ONE' TOPS WEEKEND BOX OFFICESteven Spielberg'S action-adventure film earns solid $53.2 million.Go to Home Page »Here’s a look back, over the course of one year, at the events that led to the brink of a government shutdown, with immigration and spending as the main drivers.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Prominent House Republicans stepped forward on Wednesday with a vision of immigration policy that clashed fiercely with President Trump’s recent overtures of bipartisanship and highlighted how difficult it will be for Congress and the president to reach accord in the coming weeks.“This is the only bill that’s going to unify the conference, and it’s going to get us to a majority of the conference,” said Representative Raúl R. Labrador, Republican of Idaho, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus who participated in Tuesday’s White House meeting.Mr. Trump convened Tuesday’s session to address the fate of young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally by their parents and were eligible for work permits under an Obama-era initiative called the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. Mr. Trump rescinded DACA in September and gave Congress six months to come up with a replacement.During Tuesday’s session, the president and lawmakers outlined four broad areas to be negotiated as part of a bipartisan immigration deal: shielding the young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, from deportation; limiting family-based migration, in which one relative can sponsor another; ending the diversity visa lottery system; and improving border security.But the House measure, put forth by a group that includes two committee chairmen — Judiciary’s Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia and Homeland Security’s Michael McCaul of Texas — was far more expansive.It would require employers to use an Internet-based system, known as E-Verify, to confirm that they are hiring only legal workers; crack down on so-called sanctuary cities by denying them federal grants; allow for the detention of minors who are arrested at the border with their parents; and toughen sentences for criminals who have been deported and return illegally.The measure would end the diversity visa lottery program, as Mr. Trump wants, and end family-based migration for all relatives other than spouses and minor children. It would offer three-year renewable work permits to DACA recipients, without offering them a path to citizenship.The new House Republicans’ stand underscored the uncertainty about immigration. Mr. Trump’s positions vacillate daily. And members of both parties are divided. Some Democrats are pressing for confrontation, while others seem to fear a political backlash. Some Republicans are searching for compromise against a conservative tide of anti-immigrant fervor.Lorella Praeli, the director of immigration policy and campaigns at the American Civil Liberties Union, described the House legislation as a “collection of hard-line provisions designed to sabotage, rather than advance, the possibility of a bipartisan breakthrough.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was not clear if the proposal would ever come up for a vote in the House, especially after Tuesday’s White House meeting established the parameters for a bipartisan deal. And it is all but certain to have no future in the Senate, where immigration legislation would need 60 votes for passage and therefore could not make it through the chamber with only Republican support.The judge, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco, wrote that the administration must “maintain the DACA program on a nationwide basis” while lawsuits challenging the decision to end the program move ahead.Officials at the Department of Homeland Security, which administers the program for young immigrants, said they are preparing to follow the order even as they await possible action by the Justice Department to appeal the ruling in the days ahead.Administration officials expressed confidence that the ruling would be overturned on appeal. And activists urged young immigrants not to take any actions to try to renew their DACA benefits until the legal picture is clearer.Still, both parties insisted that the legal case is a distraction to the only real, permanent solution for the young immigrants brought to the United States as children: legislation passed by Congress and signed by the president.Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said he was concerned that as a result of the ruling, “some will say, ‘Now we’ve got a lot of time.’”Democrats tried to keep up the pressure for quick action.“Let me be very clear: The ruling last night in no way diminishes the urgency of resolving the DACA issue,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. He added that delay was “a tactic employed by those who do not wish to see a deal.”Democrats are pushing for a deal on DACA by Jan. 19, when government funding is set to expire. The stakes are significant: If talks break down and lawmakers cannot, at a minimum, approve another stopgap spending bill, much of the government would shut down in less than two weeks.Complicating matters, both parties face their own internal differences over how to proceed on immigration. Just as Republicans have to contend with more hard-line members, some liberal Democrats are adamant that they will not vote for a government funding measure without a resolution on immigration. Liberal activists have pushed Democrats to withhold their votes for government funding if a DACA deal remains elusive, in order to maximize their leverage.But for Senate Democrats up for re-election this year in states that Mr. Trump won, a government shutdown could be politically perilous, especially if it is over immigration.“You know what? Let’s think positive,” said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, when asked about voting for a spending bill if DACA has not been resolved.Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said, “I’m not big on drawing lines in the sand.”Ms. McCaskill suggested the court ruling could actually help induce a deal more quickly. “I think everybody, especially the Republicans, would prefer us to decide this than the courts,” she said.As they try to find a bipartisan solution on immigration, lawmakers have also had to try to decipher what exactly would be acceptable to Mr. Trump, given that he holds the veto pen.At times, the reversals occurred in the span of a day.And on Wednesday, Mr. Trump gave seemingly contradictory stances in a matter of seconds. He affirmed that he would be open to signing “just about any immigration deal,” as a reporter put it, that lawmakers sent him. But asked if he would be willing to sign a deal that does not include funding for a border wall, he responded, “No, no, no, it’s got to include the wall.”Michael D. Shear and Linda Qiu contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — With the fate of hundreds of thousands of young, undocumented immigrants in the balance, the Senate on Monday began an open-ended debate on immigration — an exceedingly rare step that, in effect, will allow senators to attempt to build a bill from scratch on the Senate floor.The highly unusual debate, expected to unfold throughout the week, will test whether a series of legislative concepts and proposals championed by President Trump and a variety of Republicans and Democrats can garner 60 votes, the threshold for a measure to pass the Senate. No one has any idea how it will turn out.“Whoever gets to 60 wins,” Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, told reporters last week. “And it will be an opportunity for 1,000 flowers to bloom.”The debate kicked off Monday evening with a procedural vote on an unrelated House-passed measure that will serve as a shell for building an immigration bill. By a vote of 97 to 1, with only Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, dissenting, senators took the first step toward consideration of the underlying measure, as expected.The push on immigration comes against the backdrop of a ticking clock, and months of congressional inaction.“As the Senate is poised to start debate on the humanitarian crisis Donald Trump caused when he cruelly ended DACA, here’s what every sitting Senator should remember: Americans want the Dream Act — not cruel deals that go against basic American values,” said Corinne Ball, campaign director for MoveOn.org, a liberal activist group.Conservatives and anti-immigration groups are just as vociferous.“It was President Obama who created a cruel situation by making promises to a group of illegal aliens who he had no authority to promise what he gave them,” said Rosemary Jenks, the director of government relations for NumbersUSA, a group that advocates limiting immigration. “President Trump had a duty to rescind that policy, because the Constitution makes very clear that Congress, not the White House, sets the laws in this land.”In such a polarized environment, there is a significant chance that the Senate will pass nothing by the end of the week — or that whatever measure the Senate does adopt will be thwarted by the House.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Mr. Trump’s election, on a wave of anti-immigrant fervor, has made the current negotiations even more difficult, senators say. The negotiations are complicated by Republicans’ demands to pair any protection for DACA recipients with an increase in border security, and limits on legal immigration, and by conflicting pronouncements from Mr. Trump.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The White House recently put forth its own proposal that meets those conditions; it would offer 1.8 million Dreamers a path to citizenship, in exchange for strict limits on legal immigration and the full $25 billion for the border wall. A number of Republican senators, led by Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, have drafted legislation that mirrors the White House plan, which will almost certainly be introduced as an amendment. Mr. McConnell said on Monday that he supported it.The American people have “heard many of my colleagues across the aisle insist this issue requires swift action,” Mr. McConnell said. “Now is the time to back up the talk with the hard work of finding a workable solution. That means finding an agreement that can pass the Senate, pass the House and which the president will sign — not just making a point.”That group is focused on a narrower bill than the president would like, one that would pair a path to citizenship for the Dreamers with funding for the border wall.“The only way to achieve a solution to the DACA crisis is to keep it simple,” Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a member of the coalition, said on the Senate floor Monday.But Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican, said he could not support a bill that addresses only DACA and border security. “The president’s indicated he would not sign such a bill, so that really doesn’t meet my definition of success,” he said.At the same time, the idea of an open-ended debate is so novel that many newer senators say they have never experienced one, and are scurrying to learn the rules.“For a lot of us, we’re going to have to learn this process,” said Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota, who was elected in 2014.Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, marveled, “Been here seven years — I’ve never seen anything like it.”Immigrant rights groups are nervous, and do not know quite what to expect. Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group, put it this way: “This is going to be an uncertain, wild week.”Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »With jitters and with prayers, with countdown clocks in their heads and their immigration lawyers on speed-dial, hundreds of thousands of young immigrants have spent all fall and winter watching President Trump and congressional leaders negotiate their fate, every fleck of news a tantalizing omen.“It’s like watching a telenovela: Every day is different,” said Francis Madi, 28, who was brought to the United States from Venezuela in 2003 and now lives on Long Island. “Now we’re just going to the stressful part of the telenovela where you wonder what will happen to the protagonist.”The protagonist, in this case, happens to be her.Perhaps more than any other single group of people in the country, the Dreamers, as these young immigrants are known, have had their lives shaped directly by the mood swings of national politics.Hafsa Mamun, 18, spends about 30 minutes a night scrolling through news stories about the negotiations after she gets home from classes at Hunter College in Manhattan, where she is a freshman. Born in Malawi to Indian parents and brought to the United States as a 5-year-old, Ms. Mamun’s protected status expires in 2019. She said she had not made any plans about the future because things were so uncertain.“It’s like you’re on edge constantly,” she said. “One day you have hope that it might go through, and then something else comes up.”An agreement did seem to be staggering closer on Tuesday, though how much closer seemed impossible for even the negotiators to predict amid the welter of bewildering signals from Mr. Trump. After a year of holding a hard line on immigration, the president suggested in a meeting with congressional leaders that he supported not only a deal to protect the Dreamers but also a comprehensive immigration reform package, raising the possibility that the DACA recipients’ security could hinge on a much messier set of compromises.Republicans, meanwhile, were still pushing to tie any benefits for the young immigrants to curbs on family-based legal immigration, border security and other conservative priorities that Democrats and immigration advocates have frowned upon.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.“We’re being held hostage as a bargaining chip,” said Rafael Robles, 26, a DACA recipient in Chicago who owns an architecture, design and real estate development firm. “I’m not advocating for the Dream Act at the expense of everyone else.”On Tuesday night, a federal judge in San Francisco ruled that the Trump administration had ended the program improperly and ordered it restarted. Though immigration advocates welcomed the ruling, they cautioned that they expected it to be challenged, if not overturned, and warned that a court order was no substitute for an act of Congress.It was around 5 a.m. in Fall River, Mass., when Hellosa Silva, 18, a high school senior who came to the United States from Brazil when she was an infant, was jolted awake by a news alert on her cellphone informing her of the judge’s decision.“I read it and got super excited,” she said.Immigration lawyers were deluged on Wednesday morning with clients eager to take advantage of the court-ordered reinstatement. Jeremy McKinney, an immigration lawyer in North Carolina whose firm has more than 1,000 clients with DACA, said he posted the court ruling on the firm’s Facebook page late Tuesday, only for his phones to blow up in the morning.Mr. McKinney said that he had advised his clients against filing renewal paperwork because there was no guarantee that the administration would approve any new applications, even if it did not win on appeal, and he did not feel comfortable accepting legal fees for what would likely be a futile effort.It was difficult news to break to clients who are emotionally exhausted.“We certainly have been wearing our counselor hats here at the law firm,” he said. “We do our best to talk them through it, to kind of decrease their anxiety levels, but frankly, it’s not working.”Ramiro Luna was working late on Tuesday in Dallas when he saw the news about the judge’s ruling on Facebook. It did little to relieve the tension he felt every time he thought about his DACA status — which was to say, every time he looked at the countdown clock on his iPhone that tells him how many days he has left before it expires.On Wednesday, the clock stood at 280 days.“Every single day,” he said, “I feel like I have one day left to consider myself safe here.”Mr. Luna, 33, came to the United States from Mexico with his father at the age of 7. Now studying psychology at the University of North Texas at Dallas, he works as the campaign manager for State Representative Victoria Neave, a Dallas Democrat.He said he had grown accustomed to living with chaos and uncertainty. For one thing, he might lose his work permit before ballots are cast in the election he is working on.DACA has allowed its recipients to get jobs, go to college, obtain driver’s licenses and open 401(k)s. All of those opportunities are now at risk.“We’re at the mercy of the administration. We’re at the mercy of court rulings,” Mr. Luna said. “Right now I’m already thinking: What kind of remedial job am I going to be able to do without documentation?”For Missael Garcia, 27, the question was no longer theoretical. The work permit he obtained through DACA has already expired, forcing him to give up his job as a mentor with the Baltimore city schools system. Now he works as a restaurant cook, paid off the books in cash, he said.On Wednesday, unwilling to leave matters to a judge, he was in Washington, knocking on lawmakers’ doors with a Baltimore-based advocacy group, Casa in Action.“I feel like this government says things that get people excited and then gets their hopes up,” he said, “and at the end of the day it’s like a stab in the back.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Knocking on doors, calling members of Congress, spreading the word on social media: Activism was the only hope most DACA recipients had of influencing a process that had played out in front of millions, on television and in news outlets across the country, yet would ultimately come down to the inclinations of a few.Most immigration activists believe their best chance at a deal for the Dreamers is now, when Democrats can threaten to withhold support for a spending bill Congress would need to pass to prevent the government from shutting down on Jan. 19.More than 100 DACA recipients have been traipsing throughout the Capitol in Washington for the past two days, telling their stories to lawmakers in an urgent effort to persuade them to enshrine the program into law.One of them was Hector Rivera Suarez, 20, the student body president at Guilford College, in Greensboro, N.C., whose DACA status expires Jan. 21.“Now I feel like I don’t have control over my own future anymore,” he said. “I had all these plans, but now it’s up to someone else to make those decisions for me.”Liz Robbins contributed reporting from New York, and Manny Fernandez from Houston.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the op-ed section.President Trump escalated his verbal fusillade against immigrants this week by announcing a foolish plan to deploy troops along the Mexican border. Such a move has at best a tenuous basis in law and none in logic, and it will burn through federal funds better spent elsewhere.Mr. Trump has long stoked a xenophobic fear of newcomers among his political base. Ahead of the 2018 midterm elections, he seems increasingly desperate to find ways to compensate for his failure to deliver on his promise to build a “big, beautiful” border wall on Mexico’s dime.Mr. Trump is feeling heat from supporters who believed his pledge to build a wall paid for by Mexico. Not only has Mexico refused to fund this folly, Congress also thwarted him by approving only $1.6 billion for the project in a recent omnibus spending bill, rather than the $25 billion Mr. Trump sought. Despite opposing the wall, Democratic leaders offered to fund it if Mr. Trump backed a path to citizenship for 1.8 million DACA-eligible immigrants. He refused.One impediment to using troops on the border could be American law. The 1878 Posse Comitatus Act bars the use of the armed forces for civilian law enforcement tasks unless authorized by the Constitution or Congress. Since the 1980s, however, the Defense Department, including the National Guard, has provided indirect support to border-related anti-drug and counterterrorism efforts.In 2010, President Barack Obama sent 1,200 National Guard troops to the border to support operations against illicit networks trafficking in people, drugs, illegal weapons and money until stronger border protections and more guards were put in place. In 2006, President George W. Bush responded to requests from the governors of Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas in deploying 6,000 National Guard troops to help with engineering, aviation, entry identification and other support. The Pentagon has often been reluctant to engage in such activities, which detract from its core war-fighting mission. With combat operations underway in Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and elsewhere, it may be even less eager to do so now, especially if the operation is not limited in scope and duration.Border operations often lead to struggles among the Pentagon, Congress and states over who should bear the cost. That tension could prove even more acute now, especially if lawmakers and governors object to the deployment.Spending billions of dollars for extraneous operations doesn’t seem to concern Mr. Trump, who appears indifferent to the ballooning federal deficit; he also suggested, inappropriately, that the Pentagon could pay for the wall. All of which undercuts his previous claims that the Pentagon was underfunded and needed a huge budget increase in 2019, to $716 billion, which is already earmarked to give troops a raise and buy new weapons.Mr. Trump is once again demonstrating an inability to make sound, considered judgments about what’s needed to lead the nation and keep it safe. He is resorting to the demagogue’s tactic of inspiring fear and appears not to understand why the Posse Comitatus Act was enacted — to limit the powers of the federal government in using military personnel to enforce domestic policies within the United States. He should recognize that the move is costly and should be used sparingly, if at all — and certainly not for crass political purposes.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSFor Marcela Alcaide Eligio, A.P. Biology class would have to wait. First, she had some paperwork to do.“I had to take my chance,” said Ms. Alcaide, whose permit for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, expires in May. “It’s always uncertain, so you have to do it as soon as possible.”“I wanted to take this opportunity while the window lasts,” said Mario Hernandez, 29, who was whisked across the Mexico-United States border when he was a 1-year-old and raised in Los Angeles.Hours later, his sense of urgency seemed prescient. The Department of Justice filed a notice of appeal on Tuesday afternoon in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, saying it intended to ask the Supreme Court later in the week to review the Federal District Court’s ruling, which had enjoined the federal government from ending the DACA program, as it had planned. .With their fates split in the courts, in the halls of Congress, and, seemingly, the White House, DACA recipients across the country scrambled to do what was in their power.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In New York, the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs was partnering with CUNY Citizenship Now! to offer two free clinics on Thursday and next Tuesday, while Make the Road New York, another immigrant advocacy group in the city, had filled all its slots for three Saturday events.In Phoenix, a community organizing and advocacy group, Puente Arizona, had already helped prepare six applications on Monday, even though it was a federal holiday. On Tuesday the applicants only needed to put them in the mail — with a tracking number to avoid any problems with the United States Postal Service that plagued the renewal program in the fall, when more than 1,900 applicants were rejected for being late because of mail delays.In some cities, though, the DACA push in response to immigration authorities reopening renewal applications was slower than others. Geoffrey Hoffman, the director of the immigration clinic at the University of Houston Law Center, said on Tuesday that the clinic had received only a handful of inquiries from DACA recipients.“It’s been very sparse,” Mr. Hoffman said on Tuesday. “I would say there’s still a fair amount of uncertainty with regard to whether these applications will be accepted,” he added.But another legal services group in Houston said it had received 50 to 100 emails, calls and walk-in consultations since the federal judge’s injunction last week.On Sept. 5, when the Trump administration announced that it was phasing out the DACA program, which grants the deportation protection and work permits to young people who were brought to the United States illegally by their parents as children, it allowed only those recipients whose benefits expired between Sept. 5, 2017 and March 5, 2018 to renew for a final two years.According to the immigration agency, 132,000 out of the 154,000 people eligible to renew applied in the fall. But this time, anyone whose permit had expired since Sept. 5, 2016 or was canceled at any time could apply.The immigration agency said that anyone whose permit expired in the next 120 to 150 days could reapply. It historically has accepted people as many as six months out.In California, Luis Cruz’s permit expires in June, so after the administration canceled the DACA program in September, he stopped saving money from his job at a communications firm for the $495 application fee. That changed with last week’s court ruling.The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights, known as Chirla, said it would cover the cost, to Mr. Cruz’s gratitude. “It’s done, sealed in an envelope and about to be express-mailed,” he said.The lawyer for Ms. Alcaide in New York, Hasan Shafiqullah, the director of the immigration unit at the Legal Aid Society, said he sent an email to 950 former DACA clients on Monday, explaining the renewal process. He got only 10 responses.By the end of Tuesday, he had sent out four applications via FedEx, paid for by Legal Aid in an effort to avoid the earlier mail problems.Mr. Shafiqullah said that perhaps some of the unit’s clients did not need legal assistance with their applications because they have renewed twice already and were familiar with the process. For Ms. Alcaide, who came from Mexico when she was 2 years old, it was her first renewal. Her mother gave her the application fee from her savings from cleaning houses.“It’s really exciting because I don’t have to fear anything else for two more years,” Ms. Alcaide said.Now, she added that she will be able to apply for colleges in New York with more assurance that she can earn money to pay tuition.But Mr. Shafiqullah had to caution her, as he has been doing for his other clients. The afternoon decision from the Department of Justice underscored why.“The fact that this has started isn’t a guarantee that it will continue,” he told her across the desk, “but we’re hoping that those who manage to apply in time, even if there is an injunction, if you get your foot in the door, then they will honor that.”Liz Robbins reported from New York; Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles. Manny Fernandez contributed reporting from Houston, Rebekah Zemansky from Phoenix.See More »Go to Home Page »MEXICO CITY — Lalo Aguilar was born in the Mexican border city of Juárez 29 years ago, carries a Mexican passport and lives in Mexico City. Yet he speaks of Mexico as a kind of foreign country, a place to which he was banished.“Exile,” he calls it.In 2012, after living nearly his entire life as an undocumented immigrant in Utah, he was deported to Mexico after an altercation with some police officers over an immigration-enforcement bill he was protesting.“Here, I don’t click,” he said. “The land I grew up on, the mountains, the forest: That’s home.”He is part of a growing population of Mexicans who spent much — if not most — of their lives in the United States without immigration papers before returning to Mexico, either voluntarily or by force.Many must deal with feelings of loss, dislocation and confusion, adrift in a kind of transitional state between two countries: one they knew and loved but that rejected them, and another in which they have citizenship but lack a deeper sense of belonging.The experiences of these returnees have become more resonant in light of the intensifying debate in the United States Congress about the future of young immigrants who were brought to the country as children.Should Congress fail to agree on a solution that would extend legal protections to those immigrants — as well as to another one million who were eligible for DACA but never signed up — they would face renewed threats of deportation.Many of the young immigrants, a group broadly known as Dreamers, have vowed to stay. But the choice may not be theirs one day. And in Mexico, those who have already returned from the United States warn: Reintegration is rarely easy.To be sure, voluntary returnees and deportees say that landing in Mexico can have upsides. They can walk the streets without fear of deportation. They can reconnect with long-lost relatives. They can afford college.But the positive turns can be overwhelmed by the challenges.Many arrive in a place they never knew as adults, or do not remember. Some may find themselves alone, their friends and relatives still living in the United States. Some may even wrestle with speaking Spanish.They may struggle to continue their education, find jobs and make their experience in the United States count for something in Mexico.Their return can carry a stigma: the shame of a deported criminal, or a sign of utter failure.“The early days was just, like, culture shock, man,” said Mr. Aguilar, who had grown up in what he called “a small white Mormon town” in Utah.After returning to Mexico, “I isolated myself in my room pretty much,” he said. “Isolation and depression, trying to figure out what was going on, how I ended up living in Mexico.”The size of the response by the Mexican government has not matched the scope of the struggle of its young citizens who have returned, according to returnees, their advocates and migration scholars.This stands in contrast to the Mexican government’s supportive approach toward Mexican immigrants in the United States, where the vast Mexican consular network has provided a range of services, including legal assistance and guidance in obtaining benefits in the United States such as DACA protections.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Mexico, the federal government did start a program in 2014 that sought to help returnees reintegrate into Mexican society. A cornerstone of the program is a network of reception centers along the border that greet deportees with food, help them sign up for health insurance, provide access to a phone and local transportation, and give information about how to get work.“Somos Mexicanos has been a Band-Aid,” said Jill Anderson, co-director of Otros Dreams en Acción, a support group in Mexico for deported and returning immigrant youth. “It’s a political messaging campaign.”In response to a request for information about the status of the initiatives, a foreign ministry spokeswoman sent links to two pages on the web site of Mexico’s National Migration Institute. But neither provided further information about the job bank, credit program or the scholarships.Eunice Rendón, the coordinator of Agenda Migrante, an advocacy group for Mexican migrants, said the reintegration of returning migrants has been a longstanding problem.“We had a very big quantity of people since before Trump who had difficulty reintegrating,” said Ms. Rendón. “It’s not a new problem. What Trump has done is make it visible.”Amid limited help from the government, a small but expanding ecosystem of community-based organizations has emerged around the country to help returning migrants, particularly Dreamers, find their footing in Mexico.The informal network includes New Comienzos, which started in 2015 and operates out of a sleek co-working space in central Mexico City, near a call center employing bilingual returnees in a neighborhood known as Little L.A.Israel Concha, 38, New Comienzos’ founder, said groups like his have become lifelines to undocumented Mexicans in the United States preparing for a possible return.“They’re asking the smallest questions: ‘I’m studying. Can I continue with my education in Mexico?” said Mr. Concha, who was deported in 2014 after living in the United States for three decades.Less than a mile away, Ms. Anderson’s group, Otros Dreams en Acción, has opened a communal space they named Poch@ House, reappropriating the Spanish word “pocho,” which is mostly used pejoratively to describe those who have left Mexico and have presumably lost their Mexican identity.The space draws returnees seeking guidance and offers activities such as yoga and dance classes, writing workshops and language lessons.Conversation flows seamlessly between English and Spanish, sometimes in the same sentence. Decorations reflect binational lives: a Utah license plate, a Day of the Dead skull, a bumper sticker from an American radio station.Maggie Loredo, a founding member, said nothing like this existed when she returned to Mexico in 2008. She had moved to the United States when she was 2, and grew up in Texas and Georgia. She made the hard decision to head back to Mexico because she could not afford an American college education and her undocumented status put scholarships out of reach.At the time, she said, those who came back often kept their American experiences to themselves and dealt with the emotional struggle and culture shock on their own.“Everything was very much in the shadows,” she said. “You never heard anyone talk about deportation and returns. You didn’t hear about anyone else with a similar background as you.”But as the community of the deported and returned has grown, it is finding its voice, helping to create a softer landing for new arrivals.Those facing return “are scared,” Mr. Concha said. “But at least they know there’s a light at the end of the tunnel, and that there’s a second chance in Mexico.”Paulina Villegas contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »BERKELEY, Calif. — A few months ago, the composer Jimmy López came to the University of California, Berkeley, to hear firsthand the experiences of young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. He was hoping to talk to students as he prepared to create “Dreamer,” an oratorio designed to reflect the inspiration that fuels the experience of immigrants, and the challenges they face.It may have been the first time that the composition of an oratorio — the kind of grand choral work Bach, Handel and Haydn are all famous for — was interrupted by an appearance of the border patrol.But this is no ordinary oratorio.“There was nothing on the horizon when we began that would indicate what we were going to be facing,” Mr. López said in an interview, explaining that the rapidly changing immigration landscape had forced him to reconsider his concept for the piece.As it turned out, the immigration officials who had come to campus that day earlier this year were there to discuss a program that speeds security checks at airports. But the fears their vehicle sparked underscored how anxious a time this is for undocumented students.At one point, the pair heard from a 32-year-old graduate student who asked not to be named because she feared publicizing her undocumented status.She told them how the slogan “Undocumented, Unafraid, Unapologetic” had once come to sum up how many immigrants felt. “The spirit of that,” she said, “as sort of coming out of the shadows, no longer being afraid, no longer having to feel shame.”“Now,” she said, “it’s like: ‘Undocumented, Unapologetic, a Bit Afraid.”Another graduate student, Ernesto Gutiérrez, 25, said he hoped immigrants would be given a voice by the oratorio, a roughly 40-minute work that will be performed here next year by the soprano Ana María Martínez, a chorus and Esa-Pekka Salonen conducting the Philharmonia Orchestra of London.“I think this could put a face to the issue, without putting anyone in danger,” Mr. Gutiérrez said. “It would be a really good way to express our stories, express our fears, our feelings of anxiety and insecurity without actually having to worry about the federal government coming after me, or finding ways to intimidate me or other activists.”Matías Tarnopolsky, its executive and artistic director, said the context for the new oratorio looks very different now than when it was commissioned. “It was this really important issue that looked like it was going to have a happy ending,” he recalled, “but very quickly didn’t.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“They really represent the epitome of why the immigration laws in this country are broken,” he said. “They are in limbo, caught in between, through no fault of their own: brought by their parents at an early age when they were unable to make their own decisions, and then growing up in a country to which they don’t entirely belong, legally speaking.”The students said they feared what would happen if the program is ended. But they also continued to worry about relatives and friends who had never qualified for it in the first place.Paola Mora, 22, said in an interview that she had been grateful when the program allowed her to visit her ailing grandmother in Guadalajara last June, just a few months before she died — but saddened that her mother could not accompany her to say goodbye to her own mother.“I think it came with a lot of guilt.” she said. “Why was I the one to be able to have seen my grandma?”Her friend, Kris Ordoñez, 21, told Mr. López and Mr. Cruz that she hoped the oratorio would not focus too narrowly on the Dreamers and ignore others who did not qualify for the temporary protections offered by DACA.Mr. Cruz sought to reassure her. “I like the resonance of the word ‘dreamer,’ ” he said. “I think it’s a bigger word.”“What stays with me,” Mr. Cruz said as the meeting ended, “is the concept of fear.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — With government funding set to run out this weekend, congressional leaders agreed on a voluminous $1.3 trillion spending bill on Wednesday that would beef up domestic and military programs and keep the government open through September.“Every bill takes compromise, and there was plenty here,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, “but at the end of the day, we Democrats feel very good because so many of our priorities for the middle class were included.”As the negotiations wrapped up on Capitol Hill, the president himself emerged as a potential obstacle, waffling on Wednesday about whether he could support the final package in part because it lacked sufficient funding for his wall. To salvage the agreement, Speaker Paul D. Ryan went to the White House residence to meet with Mr. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and Marc Short, the White House legislative affairs chief, with Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, joining by telephone.A White House official said the group smoothed over differences over a number of items, including the wall and other border issues, as well as transportation and military funding.Afterward, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, issued an upbeat statement making it clear that Mr. Trump had overcome his reservations, saying that he and the congressional leaders had “discussed their support for the bill.”The president appeared to endorse the deal late Wednesday night, even as he vented frustration about the compromises that made it possible.Democrats were able to exert influence in the negotiations over the spending bill because votes from their party are needed to approve the legislation in the Senate and will most likely be needed in the House, as well.But there are strings attached to what can be built, and the funding is far short of the total Mr. Trump would ultimately need to build his promised “big, beautiful wall.” Some of the funding is for replacing existing barriers.Over the weekend, the White House offered to extend protections for DACA recipients for two and a half years in exchange for $25 billion for the border wall, according to congressional aides. Democrats countered by offering $25 billion in wall funding in exchange for a pathway to citizenship for a broader population of Dreamers, which the White House rejected.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The spending bill does not include $900 million in funding for Gateway that had been included last year in House legislation. But according to a senior Senate Democratic aide, it includes hundreds of millions of dollars that could go toward the Gateway program, including funds that do not require the approval of Mr. Trump’s Transportation Department.As November’s midterm elections loom, the legislation also includes $380 million for grants to states to improve their election infrastructure and bolster election security.The bill is long overdue, coming almost halfway through the 2018 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1. Since then, Congress has needed five stopgap spending measures to keep the government open. By snapping that streak of short-term patches, lawmakers would provide a dose of stability to federal agencies that have been left in limbo as Congress lurched from one stopgap measure to the next.This time around, with lawmakers expected to vote on a gigantic spending bill with little time to digest its contents, Mr. Paul is unhappy yet again.“It’s a rotten, terrible, no-good way to run your government,” he said Tuesday, adding, “Really, should we be looking in thousand-page bills with 24 hours to decide what’s in them?”He was not the only lawmaker with such frustration.“Whoever designed this process is not qualified to run a food truck,” said Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana. “It’s embarrassing. And as bad as it looks from the outside, you ought to see it from the inside.”The approval of the spending bill would be another blow to those worried about the government’s ballooning debt, which has topped $21 trillion. That issue seemed of little concern on Capitol Hill as Mr. Trump and Republican lawmakers pushed for much more military funding, and Democrats demanded similar increases for domestic priorities. The spending bill will leave lawmakers from both parties with much to boast about, including billions of dollars for infrastructure and for fighting the opioid epidemic, as well as the biggest increase in military funding in years.“This legislation fulfills our pledge to rebuild the United States military,” Mr. Ryan said after the bill was unveiled, while conceding, “No bill of this size is perfect.”The spending bill gave the most conservative members of Congress little to celebrate. Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, expressed disappointment with the modest funding for fortifying the border.“It is troubling when we get a tunnel and we don’t get a wall,” he said. “The last time I checked, the president didn’t make any promises about getting a tunnel in any of his campaign stops, at least not in North Carolina.”Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »For Pav Sterry of Columbus, Ohio, legalizing any undocumented immigrants — even those who came as children without a choice in the matter — is just plain wrong.Poll after poll has shown that a large majority of Americans support protections for young immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children.Yet there remains a slice of the American public for whom the idea of legalizing an undocumented immigrant has not gotten better with age.They do not dispute that most of the immigrants are eager and hardworking and did not choose their station in life. But for these voters, that is all beside the point.And to those who contend that the young immigrants would be marooned in a country they do not remember, Ms. Sterry says: “Parents and children can all go home together.”There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.President Trump has repeatedly expressed support for legalizing DACA recipients — on Wednesday, he said he was open to granting them a path to citizenship “at some point in the future, over a period of 10 to 12 years.” But he, too, has felt the pull from people in his administration who objected to the program, which was created by former President Barack Obama in 2012.Lars Larson, a syndicated conservative talk-show host based in Portland, Ore., said that 10 to 15 percent of his callers consider DACA recipients lawbreakers and want to give them “nothing at all.”“I point out that philosophically, I agree with them, but practically this needs to be resolved,” he said, by granting permission to stay only in exchange for tougher enforcement measures. “Show us that you are bringing something of value.”In interviews, voters who oppose legalization said that they felt the government was being held hostage by sympathizers of the young immigrants. Most were resigned to the possibility that a deal could happen, and said that they could live with it if conservatives came away with significant new immigration controls.Still, several invoked the law signed by President Ronald Reagan in 1986, which granted 2.7 million people amnesty while tightening security at the Mexican border and adding strict penalties for employers who hired undocumented workers. Though it promised to reduce illegal immigration, the number of undocumented people has grown since then to an estimated 11 million.“Granting legal status to Dreamers could potentially cause a domino effect in which other families bring young children, hoping that in time their children will be granted legal status,” said Jaclyn Haak, 19, a chemical engineering student at the University of Minnesota.She acknowledged that many DACA recipients are contributing to the economy, but said that this did not mean that legalizing them was in the country’s best interest. She said it could undermine job prospects for Americans, echoing a concern by immigration restrictionist groups.For Joe Kleve, 21, a senior at St. Mary’s University of Minnesota in Winona, the argument that the young immigrants had been brought by their parents held no weight.What if someone’s parents were caught sneaking their whole family into a movie without paying, he asked. “Are they going to just kick the parents out?”For Mr. Pham, 39, the issue was personal. He, too, arrived in the United States as a toddler, as a legally admitted refugee from Vietnam. But until his family could find American sponsors, they were parked in a refugee camp overseas for more than a year.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“If we can do it the legal way, so can they,” said Mr. Pham, an information technology consultant. “We don’t have to be creating new programs or giving them preferential treatment.”At the same time, a few of those interviewed held to common misconceptions about the young immigrants. Some said the immigrants should not be allowed to become legal if they had not tried to do so before DACA was created. But it is almost impossible for people to secure green cards once they have been here illegally for several years.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Others expressed the sentiment that the immigrants’ parents should have gotten “in line,” though for many foreigners, a legal pathway into the country exists only if they have special skills or relatives in the United States who are citizens.While these voters remain in the minority, support is not absolute among the majority who want to legalize the young immigrants.And for those who disdain legalization, that feeling is not always absolute, either. When pressed on whether deportations of the young immigrants should begin — a distinct possibility if no deal is reached — some hedged their opposition.“They’d be sent back to countries they have no connection to, don’t know anything about — it’s a very complex situation,” said Mr. Cotts, a lawyer, adding that he would like lawmakers to “find a middle ground,” perhaps one that prohibits the immigrants from becoming citizens with voting rights.Mr. Pham suggested letting the immigrants stay, but expelling all those who commit crimes, or even get speeding tickets. “If they’re here already, and they are contributing to society, leave them alone,” he said. He said he did not want them becoming citizens, but then added he would entertain the thought for those who served in the military.Ms. Sterry, however, stuck to her stance. “Let’s not pretend this is only about the children,” she said. Once the young immigrants are legalized, support will mount for legalizing their parents, too, she believed.When asked about what it felt like to take an unpopular position, Ms. Sterry responded: “I don’t care about being popular. Amnesty is wrong.”Christina Capecchi contributed reporting from Minneapolis, and Rebekah Zemansky from Phoenix.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Trump administration officials said Monday they're crafting a new legislative package aimed at closing immigration "loopholes," hours after the president called on Republicans in Congress to immediately pass a border bill using the "Nuclear Option if necessary" to muscle it through."Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don't allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" President Donald Trump wrote in a series of sometimes-misleading tweets, fired off after returning from a holiday weekend spent in Florida with several immigration hardliners.Trump also declared protections for so-called Dreamer immigrants "dead," claimed the U.S. has "no effective border laws" and warned Mexico to halt the passage of "caravans" of illegal immigrants or risk retribution."They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" he wrote.Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters. The $1.3 trillion funding package included $1.6 billion in border wall spending, but much of that money can be used only to repair existing segments, not to build new sections.Among the measures the administration is pursuing: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children arrested at the border and traveling alone. Under current law, unaccompanied children from countries that don't border the U.S. would be placed under the supervision of the Department of Health and Human Services and undergo often-lengthy deportation proceedings before an immigration judge instead of being deported.The administration is also pushing Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to parents, adult relatives or other caretakers as their cases make their way through immigration court. Officials complain that many children never show up at their hearings.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House immigration wish list that was released in October but failed to gain traction during negotiations over the border wall. Such proposals are likely to face opposition from moderate Republicans and Democrats going into the midterm elections. But Trump appears intent on ensuring the issues remain at the forefront of public conversation, even though the omnibus was widely seen as the last major legislation likely passed this year.In his Easter weekend tweets and comments, Trump continued to blame Democrats for killing the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program despite the fact that he was the one who moved to end the program. He also claimed DACA, which has provided temporary protection from deportation and work permits to hundreds of thousands of young people, is luring people to cross the border illegally, even though the program — and most proposals to replace it — have never been open to new arrivals.Trump spent much of the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago club, having meals with his family, watching cable news shows and rubbing elbows with conservative commentators including Fox News host Sean Hannity, according to several club members. Also spotted at the club: championship golfer Dustin Johnson, MyPillow maker Michael J. Lindell, boxing promoter Don King and former New York Police Commissioner Bernie Kerik.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Staffers with Trump over the holiday included policy adviser Stephen Miller, one of the chief architects of the administration's anti-immigration policies, but not his chief of staff John Kelly or his elder daughter, Ivanka, both considered more moderate influences.Trump's past calls to use the "nuclear option" — changing the Senate rules to require a simple majority of 51 votes to override a rule instead of 60— have been repeatedly dismissed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who argues Republicans will welcome the filibuster if they return to being the Senate minority. The current split is 51-49 favoring Republicans.Notably, Trump's favored DACA solution mustered only 39 votes in the Senate, meaning it couldn't have passed even if the Senate did approve the changes.Trump's tweets calling on Mexico to halt "caravans" filled with immigrants in the country illegally came after a "Fox & Friends" report early Sunday that featured the leader of the union representing border patrol agents predicting that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for immigration reform.About 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, have been marching along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.These "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for at least the last five years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.Individuals in the caravans often try to reach the U.S. border but usually not as part of the caravan. The caravans typically don't proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz. The current march is scheduled to end this month with a conference on migration issues in the central Mexican state of Puebla.___Associated Press writers Elliot Spagat in San Diego; Catherine Lucey, Darlene Superville, Lisa Mascaro, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller in Washington; and Mark Stevenson in Mexico City contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »On Jan. 1, 2010, four student activists began a 1,500-mile walk from Miami to Washington, D.C. They wore white Nikes and, later, white T-shirts that said “Undocumented.” They chose the start of a new decade for their walk because it seemed auspicious. Exhausted by years of lobbying for immigration reform that never came to pass and a Dream Act that never materialized, the friends wanted to stage a protest. When they got to Washington, they hoped to persuade President Obama to address their predicament, one shared by hundreds of thousands of young people.That quandary, aptly summarized by the veteran journalist Laura Wides-Muñoz in “The Making of a Dream: How a Group of Young Undocumented Immigrants Helped Change What It Means to Be American,” was this: They were “kids raised in a country whose language and culture they identified with, whose Pledge of Allegiance they recited every morning in school — and yet a country that sought to render them akin to ghosts the moment they became adults, making it impossible for most to seek a college education, work legally or have any official say in the political system.” Consigning young immigrants to illegitimacy makes no sense, Wides-Muñoz points out, because taxpayers invest about $130,000 to educate a given student, and can only recoup that investment when students go on to work legally and pay taxes themselves.“The Making of a Dream” is a sweeping chronicle of the immigrant rights movement in which the four walkers took part. The teenagers profiled by Wides-Muñoz refused to accept their parents’ ghostlike status, and instead evolved into some of the most politically engaged student leaders in the nation. Wides-Muñoz casts their fight as the latest chapter in the civil rights movement; as they planned their march, the Latino students from Miami read Martin Luther King Jr.’s “Letter From Birmingham Jail,” and selected a route that allowed them to visit important sites from the civil rights era.The young Dreamers wrestled with one question in particular: What should they ask of Barack Obama? Initially, the country’s first biracial president had signaled that he wanted to pass comprehensive reform, but then Wall Street melted down. After that, Obama became consumed by the raucous debate over health care. It had been thus for years. Early in George W. Bush’s presidency, the proposed legislation known as the Dream Act, which would have granted a path to citizenship to children who had been brought into the country without legal permission through no fault of their own, received promising support from key leaders like Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois. But its first big hearing in Congress was slated for Sept. 12, 2001. After 9/11, the Dream Act sputtered, and Congress instead passed the Patriot Act, allocating more technology and personnel to domestic security, including surveillance along the borders.Yet the Dreamers kept fighting. Wides-Muñoz expertly describes the broader reform movement, through vivid thumbnail portraits of key students. The walk to Washington by the four activists provides one of the more dramatic sections of her narrative. The students believed Obama might sympathize with them because he had a Kenyan father. But they knew comprehensive reform would be a tough sell. At the same time, asking for passage of the Dream Act felt like a betrayal of the family members who had sacrificed so much on their behalf. The Dreamers did not want to choose between saving their parents and saving themselves.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wides-Muñoz covered immigration for The Associated Press, and she capably depicts how the Dreamer movement grew out of two decades’ worth of political activity by students, attorneys, politicians and grass-roots advisers, all of whom helped make DACA a reality. That program, which went into effect in 2012, transformed the lives of hundreds of thousands of undocumented students by granting them temporary permission to remain in the country and to work legally, even though it offered them no path to citizenship.It is deeply ironic that a book about the achievements of these student activists must conclude with the election of Donald J. Trump, who campaigned on the idea of ending DACA entirely. While Trump has since expressed sympathy for Dreamers, one of his first actions as president was to appoint as his attorney general Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama. Sessions appears throughout Wides-Muñoz’s saga as one of the primary critics of the immigrant rights movement, a figure who blocked any attempt at comprehensive reform and every iteration of the Dream Act.Even as Trump vacillates, it seems likely that his administration will take a hard stance against immigrants who lack legal status, and the tenuous victory for belonging that the student activists worked so hard to achieve is likely to unravel. The only real solution to structural illegitimacy that will adequately protect these immigrants is comprehensive reform with a path to citizenship. For that to pass Congress, however, these brave kids and their allies will have to take up the fight once more. Wides-Muñoz reminds us that thanks to the ability of young people to dream, what seems impossible today may yet prove achievable tomorrow.Helen Thorpe is the author of “Just Like Us,” a book about undocumented students from Mexico growing up in America, and “The Newcomers,” which follows a class of refugee students from around the globe as they resettle in the United States.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »The federal government has shut down. But what does that mean and how does it happen?Before reading the article:What have you heard or read about the shutdown of the federal government, which started on Friday? What does it mean in practical terms?Finally, tell us more about what you think:A major lingering question was how such a compromise might pave the way for passage of legislation to address the fate of hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, who were brought to the country illegally as children. Their status is in jeopardy after President Trump moved last year to end an Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, that shields them from deportation. Mr. Trump gave Congress until early March to find a resolution to the issue.What, in your opinion, should be done about Dreamers and DACA? Why?See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byThe energy of the progressive grass roots should be seen as a valuable resource for Democrats. If Donald Trump’s election taught us anything beyond the salience of white nationalism among our fellow citizens, it’s that passion matters, and that people respond when they see a leader who is willing to champion them even when it’s risky. That’s why it was so infuriating to see the Senate Democratic leadership sell the Dreamers out.On Monday afternoon, Senate Democrats made a deal with Republicans to reopen the federal government, which has been shut since Congress failed to pass a budget bill on Friday. Democrats had been using their leverage in budget negotiations to demand that Congress pass DACA protections into law. But almost as soon as the shutdown began, Democrats lost their nerve, and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, announced a deal to fund the government through Feb. 8. In exchange, he received a vague promise by the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, to take up some sort of immigration legislation after Feb. 8 if a more wide-ranging compromise on the budget and DACA can’t be found first.But even if McConnell were a decent and honorable man, a DACA deal in the Senate means nothing unless it’s attached to must-pass legislation in the House. And Democrats have no agreement from Speaker Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, who has a policy of refusing to introduce legislation that doesn’t have majority Republican support, even if it could pass on a bipartisan basis.Aside from the immorality of forsaking the Dreamers, Schumer’s deal is bad for Resistance morale, which hurts Democrats going into 2018. Levin told me about an Indivisible leader in a battleground state whom he’d spoken to on Sunday. Like many in the Resistance, she’s a working mother and had grown weary of knocking on doors every weekend. But seeing the Democrats fighting for DACA, she told him, “makes me want to get out all the more.” Millions of Americans are spending every spare moment trying to limit the damage Trump is causing to this country. If Schumer can’t lead them, he should at least follow.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and left that you might not have seen.“The only rational explanation for this shutdown error was Democrats’ belief that President Trump would not be able to resist the urge to intervene and worsen the situation — either by making some base-splitting promise or saying something objectionable.”Democrats made a tactical — though not all that unreasonable — mistake, Mr. Domenech says, by pinning the government shutdown on their hope for a deal to protect hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants brought to the country as children. The Democrats had hoped, he suggests, that President Trump would say or do something that would derail Republican unity on the issue._____“The bottom line is that most Americans don’t like government shutdowns, and will rarely find other political goals sufficient to justify them.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters._____“In taking the deal, Democrats have drawn the wrath of a fired-up activist base that now feels betrayed.”_____“For the moment, at least, Democrats appear to have squandered a three-day shutdown and the leverage it provided.”_____“It’s hard to see how government shutdowns will go back to being something elected officials want to avoid.”_____“Republicans may have won the government shutdown battle, but there is still no winning strategy for the party on immigration.”_____See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOpinion ColumnistWhich would you rather have, a Donald Trump Wall or a Donald Trump Military Parade?No fair saying neither. Trump’s been pushing hard for both, and sooner or later the man has to win something. So if you had to choose, which way would you go?A. Parade, but there should be floats.B. Wall, but maybe around Mar-a-Lago.C. I don’t care as long as he doesn’t bomb anybody.Reasonable answers! And I’ll give you an advance hint of how it’s working out: The wall option is toast.Congress passed its big spending package last week, and the president’s request for wall money was ignored like a burp at a dinner party. All Trump got was $1.6 billion for stuff like fence repair.“I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill” Trump tweeted, complaining that “the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded.”“Not fully funded” is a euphemism for “totally ignored.”Twittering Trump also bitterly complained that Congress had not done anything about DACA reform — protection for the people who were brought here illegally as children. That was, indeed, strange on two points. You’d think the Democrats would have tried to do something. But the Dreamers are safe now because of court orders, and their supporters think they’ve got more time to work the problem out.Much stranger was the fact that the guy demanding security for the Dreamers was exactly the president who had killed the DACA protection program in the first place. Why was he getting so worked up?Remember that bipartisan immigration get-together he held back in January? When he begged members of Congress to pass “a bill of love” that would take care of those very same Dreamers? It was a swell moment. After which, the alien floated away, Trump retracted everything and made the famous remark about people from “shithole” countries.During the spending negotiations, maybe the alien entity was taking Trump on a visit to other dimensions. That would explain why the president had absolutely no clue as to what had been going on during the meetings, which had been attended by members of his staff.When it came time for the threatened veto, Trump transformed again, announcing he had to sign the spending plan because it included desperately needed funds for the military. But to prevent anything this dreadful from ever happening in the future, Trump added that he was “calling on Congress to give me a line-item veto for all government spending bills.” After members of the House and Senate finished rolling around on the floor laughing, the world moved forward.Except for Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, who told a Fox interviewer that he thought it would indeed be a good idea to allow the president to wipe out any pieces of the congressional budget that he didn’t like. When informed that line-item veto power had been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, Mnuchin said, “Well, again, Congress could pass a rule, O.K., that allows them to do it.”This is an administration that goes through high-ranking officials like Raisinettes at a movie. And yet Steve Mnuchin is still here.So the spending negotiations were a disaster for the wall warriors. “How about going to Mexico and getting them to pay for it?” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer cruelly.We have listened to several conversations between Trump and the president of Mexico on this subject, all of which can be translated into:President of Mexico: “Hahahaha. …”But our chief executive does not give up! Trump came back with a stern tweet announcing that the Defense Department could build his wall, since, thanks to the new budget, “our Military is again rich.”Clearly, there’s an alien entity somewhere in this: Trump threatened to veto the spending package, then announced he’d sign it only because it contained desperately needed funds for the impoverished military. Now, just a couple of days later, he feels that the Pentagon is swimming in so much extra cash it can afford to blow some on building a barrier along a border that has been stable since 1853.The Department of Defense seems about as enthusiastic about paying for the wall as Mexico is. So, what next? Well, the military is going to give Trump that parade he wants. On Veterans Day. It’s billed as a no-tanks-invited celebration of the contributions of veterans from the Revolutionary War to the present. No mention of floats, but I could definitely imagine something nice involving the cast from “Hamilton.”Not a bad trade. Everybody wants to honor veterans, and perhaps some concerned citizens will think about staging parades of their own, pointing out that the most important thing America owes its men and women in uniform is not to get them stuck in unnecessary conflicts.And if anybody can come up with a float celebrating Trump’s bone spurs. …CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSRepresentative Nancy Pelosi took the House floor for more than eight hours on Wednesday to protest the lack of protection for young undocumented immigrants.WASHINGTON — Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, took the House floor at 10:04 a.m. Eastern on Wednesday, intent on speaking about the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.Eight hours and seven minutes later, she quit talking.Her marathon monologue — highly unusual for the House, which has no equivalent to the Senate filibuster — appears to have set the record for the longest continuous speech in the chamber, dating to at least 1909, according to the House historian. It tied up the House into the evening, delaying debate on a bill intended to spur competition in the mortgage market.It also demonstrated, yet again, why Ms. Pelosi, 77, of California, remains one of the most enduring — and to many, infuriating — figures in Washington.“I am reminded that there are members who come to this great chamber to make speeches, and there are those who come to make laws,” an irritated-sounding Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said when Ms. Pelosi wrapped up. “When it comes to speeches, I would note that the Gettysburg Address came in at two minutes, and Americans may think it had greater eloquence.”Ms. Pelosi’s speech came as Republicans were scrambling to pass legislation to keep the government open. A short-term funding bill expires at midnight Thursday.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Ms. Pelosi has said she will not vote for the measure. She was protesting its lack of protection for the Dreamers, young immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children and have been shielded from deportation by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, an Obama-era initiative that President Trump has suspended.In holding the floor for more than eight hours, Ms. Pelosi took advantage of the House’s so-called magic-minute rule, which permits the majority leader, the minority leader and the House speaker to talk as long as they like. According to the House historian, she beat a record set by Representative Champ Clark of Missouri, who spoke for 5 hours and 15 minutes in 1909 to protest a tariff overhaul.Ms. Pelosi read heart-rending testimonies from Dreamers who had written their representatives about their lives. There was Andrea Seabra, who is serving in the Air Force, and whose father was a member of the Peruvian Air Force. There was Carlos Gonzalez, who once worked as an aide to former Representative Michael M. Honda, Democrat of California. And there was Al Okere, whose father was killed by the Nigerian police after articles he wrote criticizing the Nigerian government appeared in a newspaper.At one point, perhaps running out of stories, Ms. Pelosi suggested she might turn to the Bible. “Perhaps I should bring my rosary, blessed by the pope,” she said.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.An estimated 690,000 young undocumented immigrants have been protected under DACA, and roughly 1.1 million more are eligible but did not apply. When Mr. Trump suspended the program in September, he gave Congress six months to come up with a replacement. Democrats and their allies had hoped to use the must-pass spending bill to carry legislation to protect the Dreamers.Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, has promised an open debate in the Senate on immigration legislation, with senators of both parties allowed to offer amendments, if a deal is not reached by Thursday. Ms. Pelosi is calling on Speaker Paul D. Ryan to make a similar commitment in the House.“Our basic request is to honor the House of Representatives, give us a chance to have a vote on the floor,” she said as she wound down her talk on Wednesday night.But a spokeswoman for Mr. Ryan, choosing her words carefully, suggested he had no intention of conducting a freewheeling House debate. “Speaker Ryan has already repeatedly stated we intend to do a DACA and immigration reform bill — one that the president supports,” she said.Immigrants’ rights advocates, meanwhile, are furious — not only with Republicans but also with Democrats for failing to exercise their leverage to ensure that the Dreamers would not be left behind.“We want a negotiated solution that’s part of this spending bill, not a vague promise of floor action after it,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrants’ rights group. “We’re disappointed that a deal was cut without us, and we’re on the outside looking in, and we’re going to ask Democrats and Republicans who care about Dreamers to vote no.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of an immigrant who once worked as an aide to former Representative Michael M. Honda. He is Carlos Gonzalez, not Gonzales.See More »Go to Home Page »PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump declared on Sunday night that he was “not a racist” and insisted that the derogatory comment attributed to him during an Oval Office meeting on immigration last week did not occur.“I’m not a racist. I am the least racist person you have ever interviewed, that I can tell you,” Mr. Trump said as he arrived at Trump International Golf Club for dinner with Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the majority leader.Asked about the comments he was reported to have made, including a reference to African nations as “shithole countries,” Mr. Trump indicated that he did not say what had been attributed to him.“Did you see what various senators in the room said about my comments? They weren’t made,” Mr. Trump said, referring to two Republican senators who said on Sunday morning talk shows that the president never made, or that they did not hear, racist comments about Africa and Haiti.Asked about whether he still expects to reach a deal to extend protections for immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for refusing to negotiate in good faith over the program known as DACA.“Honestly, I don’t think the Democrats want to make a deal,” he said. “I think they talk about DACA but they don’t want to help the DACA people.”Mr. Trump said there were “a lot of sticking points, but they are all Democratic sticking points.”“They don’t want security at the border, there are people pouring in,” the president added. “They don’t want security at the border, they don’t want to stop the drugs.”“And they want to take money away from our military, which we will not do.”Mr. Trump said he hoped there would not be a shutdown of the government over what he said was Democratic unwillingness to compromise on DACA.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I don’t know if there is going to be a shutdown,” he said. “There shouldn’t be, because if there is, our military gets hurt very badly. We cannot let our military be hurt.”The president said that the mistake was “a state thing,” but that “we are going to now get involved in that.” He declined to answer a question about what the federal government would do to try to make sure that a mistaken alert like the one in Hawaii is not sent out again.“I love that they took responsibility,” he said of the state officials in Hawaii. “They took total responsibility. But we are going to get involved. Their attitude and their — I think it is terrific. They took responsibility. They made a mistake.”“We hope it won’t happen again,” he said. “Part of it is people are on edge, but maybe eventually we will solve the problem so they won’t have to be so on edge.”“The Wall Street Journal, as you know, quoted it totally wrong,” he said.Asked about resolving the North Korea threat, Mr. Trump said: “They have got a couple of meetings scheduled, couple of additional meetings scheduled. We’re going to see what happens. Hopefully, it’s all going to work out.”“We have great talks going on, the Olympics you know about. A lot of things can happen,” the president said, referring to talks between North Korea and South Korea, including conversations about the North Koreans’ attending the coming Olympics in Pyeongchang.Go to Home Page »SEATTLE —  Eight unknown Democrats are fighting for a spot to challenge a high-profile Republican in Washington state's reliably red 8th District.It's a familiar battle in the 8th, where voters have chosen the Republican for almost four decades since the U.S. House district's creation in 1980. But with the national GOP bracing for big midterm losses, the Democrats hope to finally prevail.The retiring incumbent, Rep. Dave Reichert, even said in an interview last year with The Seattle Times that he expects the seat will be "hard" to keep in Republican hands. The non-partisan Cook Political Report lists the contest as a toss-up. In a telling sign, a GOP House leadership-backed super PAC has opened an office in the area to help the Republican candidate.The district includes the eastern suburbs of Seattle and stretches into the rural Cascade Mountains. It is among about two dozen across the country that are held by Republicans but whose voters chose Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, making it a critical potential pickup for the Democrats trying to gain control of the House for the first time since 2010.But to do that, they'll have to defeat Dino Rossi, a former state senator who ran two close but unsuccessful efforts for governor and another for U.S. Senate. In each of those contests, he had a double-digit advantage in the 8th District."We're not giving much thought to the opinions of political horse race handicappers," said Andrew Bell, Rossi's campaign manager. "There's not much change from previous strategies. Dino has always been a fiscal conservative with a social conscience."By the end of 2017, Rossi had raised about as much money as his top five Democratic opponents combined, according to the Federal Election Commission.Still, Democrats have other factors playing in their favor, including Trump's low approval ratings and momentum from Conor Lamb's victory in the March special election for a Pennsylvania district that was held by Republicans for 15 years. Voters there had favored Trump by almost 20 percentage points in 2016. In Washington's 8th District, Trump lost by 3 percentage points."This is, without a doubt, the best chance Democrats have had to win this district, but they can't just rely on their voters, even if they are angry and motivated. They have to draw Republicans and independents," said Todd Schaefer, a political science professor at Central Washington University.Rossi's name recognition and centrist appeal put him in a much better position than Republicans running in other competitive districts, Schaefer said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.District 8 includes Seattle's eastern suburbs of Sammamish and Issaquah, which have seen their populations grow on the back of Microsoft, Google and other expanding technology companies. The district runs south to parts of Pierce County and east to include Chelan and Kittitas counties across the Cascades, rural economies that are heavily dependent on agricultural exports. The district stands to be among the most impacted in the Northwest if resident workers that benefit from Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals were removed, according to a 2017 study conducted by the University of Southern California and the Center for American Progress. The research shows economic output for the district would slump by more than $120 million annually.Trump ordered a repeal of DACA in September, putting at least 800,000 beneficiaries at risk of deportation.Rossi has stated his opposition to the Trump administration's imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. On DACA, he told The Seattle Times in March that it wouldn't be "logical" to deport beneficiaries.Kim Schrier, a pediatrician who's leading the Democratic field in fundraising, supports the 2017 Dream Act, a measure introduced in Congress to protect minors who entered the U.S. with their parents from deportation and provide a path to citizenship. The legislation shouldn't be tied to partisan issues, she said.Washington State Democratic Chairman Tina Podlodowski said Lamb's surprise win puts her party in a position to flip the 8th District "and a lot of other districts around the country."It's a sign of growing public discontent, not only with President Trump, but also Republican policies such as tax reforms and attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, she said. Democrats are mounting serious challenges in two other Republican-held districts in the state, including that of Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the only woman in House GOP leadership. McMorris Rodgers has enjoyed easy victories in her eastern Washington district since 2004.Washington is a so-called top-two primary state, meaning the top two vote getters in its August primaries will compete against each other in November - regardless of political affiliation. In fundraising terms, the Democratic field is led by Schrier, Jason Rittereiser, a labor-rights lawyer, and Shannon Hader, a doctor and former Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official. Podlodowski said she expects the fundraising advantage to remain with Rossi.Democrats need to pick up 23 districts to reach the 218-seat threshold required to control the House."We're dealing with a majority that's vulnerable," David Wasserman, a House analyst at Cook, said of Republicans. "Democrats have had a tough time breaking strongholds like Washington's 8th, but this is shaping up to be a really good year for them nationally."Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorThe six-month window to arrive at a permanent replacement for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program is about to close, and Congress is scrambling to reach a deal acceptable to the White House.Democrats are piqued, but they must not let Mr. Trump’s incoherence and prejudice keep them from signing on to a deal — even one that includes wall funding. The future of nearly 800,000 Dreamers — young undocumented immigrants — is on the line. Those of us who care about our innocent friends and neighbors brought to America as children won’t gamble with their lives.Democrats are feeling bullish. With a midterm wave, the House seems like a lock. Even a Senate majority now seems within reach. With spirits so high, some Democrats will be tempted to indulge in best-case-scenario thinking.This dark timeline might be unlikely, but unlikely things happen. (Donald Trump, I’ll remind you, is president of the United States.)Democrats should also be willing to make reasonable concessions on family reunification (so-called chain migration) and the diversity lottery (intended to bring immigrants from underrepresented countries). Shifting visas from certain family-reunification to merit-based categories should be similarly tolerable.But Democrats should reject a DACA compromise that would reduce the overall level of immigration. Immigrants yet to arrive matter too. Consistent worst-case-scenario thinking means assuming new legislation will set immigration policy for the foreseeable future. A DACA fix that cuts legal immigration could eventually deprive at least as many people as are currently covered by DACA from ever having a shot at the American dream.Mr. Trump’s “shithole countries” comment came in response to a bipartisan proposal to cut the diversity lottery program in half and reallocate those visas to Haiti, El Salvador and African countries. That proposal ought to be a model for Democrats — the president’s tantrum notwithstanding. It gives ground on the diversity lottery, but doesn’t lose those visas, shifting them instead to merit-based categories, and refuses to permit the reorganization of American immigration policy around harebrained bigotry.Mr. Trump chose to put a gun to Dreamers’ heads, but Democrats shouldn’t pay any ransom. Keeping nonracist principles of admission and the current level of legal immigration ought to be the Democrats’ lines in the sand.Will Wilkinson is the vice president for policy at the Niskanen Center.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSHere are the primary factions in the debate:But at least one red-state Democrat, Senator Jon Tester of Montana, has hinted that he would vote against the bill.Speaker Paul D. Ryan talked about tax reform, DACA and the busy months ahead for Congress during the inaugural TimesTalk D.C. on Thursday.WASHINGTON — President Trump proposed legislation on Thursday that would provide a path to citizenship for as many as 1.8 million young undocumented immigrants in exchange for an end to decades of family-based migration policies, a costly border wall and a vast crackdown on other immigrants living in the country illegally.Describing the plan as “extremely generous” but a take-it-or-leave-it proposal, White House officials said they hoped it would be embraced by conservatives and centrists in Congress as the first step in an even broader effort to fix the nation’s immigration system.Officials said the legislation would pave the way to citizenship not only for the 690,000 people who had signed up for protection under an Obama-era program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, but also for another 1.1 million undocumented immigrants who would have qualified for the program but never applied. Mr. Trump ended the DACA program, whose protections did not include a path to citizenship, last September.But the new plan — drafted by Stephen Miller, the president’s hard-line domestic policy adviser, and John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff — was immediately rejected by Democrats, immigration advocates and some Republicans, with some describing it as nothing but an attempt to rid the country of immigrants and shut the nation’s borders.Republican and Democratic senators are working on a narrower immigration plan of their own. They hope that if it can pass the Senate with a strong bipartisan majority, it will put pressure on the House — where attempts at immigration overhauls have died in recent years — to pass the legislation as well.Senate passage of a bipartisan bill could perhaps leave Mr. Trump with the take-it-or-leave-it decision. Just over two weeks ago, in a televised negotiating session at the White House, Mr. Trump said he would sign anything that got to him.Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Jeff Flake of Arizona — Republicans who have in the past fought against hard-line immigration policies — said the Senate was unlikely to simply accept the president’s legislation.“We’re getting started without them,” Mr. Flake said. Mr. Graham said bluntly, “This is a negotiation.”Members of both parties said that legislation would have a better chance of passing if it focused on legal status for DACA recipients without a dramatic crackdown on illegal immigrants or new restrictions on legal immigration for extended family members.“If you start putting in all of these highly charged toxic issues, it’s just not going to work,” said Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Anti-immigration activists also assailed the plan, though for the opposite reason. Breitbart News greeted word of the president’s plan with the headline “Amnesty Don Suggests Citizenship for Illegal Aliens.”Under Mr. Trump’s plan, described to reporters by senior White House officials, young immigrants who were brought into the United States illegally as children would be granted legal status, would be allowed to work, and could become citizens over a 10-to-12-year period if they remained out of trouble with the law.In exchange, Congress would have to create a $25 billion trust fund to pay for a southern border wall, dramatically increase immigration arrests, speed up deportations, crack down on people who overstay their visas, prevent citizens from bringing their parents to the United States, and end a State Department program designed to encourage migration from underrepresented countries.White House officials said that the list of enhanced security measures — which have been on anti-immigration wish lists for decades — were nonnegotiable. They warned that if no deal is reached, DACA recipients will face deportation when the program fully expires on March 5.One senior official said the young immigrants would not be targeted, but are “illegal immigrants” who would be processed for deportation if they came into contact with immigration officers.Eddie Vale, a Democratic consultant working with a coalition of immigration groups, described the president’s proposal as an effort to sabotage bipartisan talks and win passage of “a white supremacist wish list.”Officials said the president’s decision to formally present a plan to Congress was a direct response to members of Congress, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, who had complained that they did not know where the president stood in the immigration debate.“We’re basically signaling that this is the bill the president can sign,” one senior official said during the briefing.Officials said they expected Mr. McConnell to bring the president’s plan to the Senate floor for a vote during the week of Feb. 5, just days before the Feb. 8 expiration of a short-term government spending plan.The strategy would work only if the Senate fails to reach a broad bipartisan accord on an alternative: legislation that would protect the Dreamers and bolster border security, but reject the most draconian aspects of the White House’s proposal.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And even as Mr. Trump was offering reassuring words to the Dreamers — “tell them not to worry,” he told reporters Wednesday evening — senior White House officials were emphasizing the more hard-line features of their forthcoming immigration proposal.Democratic lawmakers and activists say they will refuse to accept any proposal that requires them to forsake the well-being of other immigrants, including the parents of the Dreamers, to secure the fate of the young immigrants themselves.“It is shameful that the White House is holding these youth hostage in exchange for their extreme immigration agenda,” said Kevin Appleby, the senior director of international migration policy for the Center for Migration Studies.“Do we simply codify what DACA is and extend it out over a period of time, or do we try to go farther than that as the president is suggesting?” asked Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota. “If you do that, you have to address the issue of chain migration, and that’s where it becomes a lot more complicated.”Hard-liners, apparently led by Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, say the White House’s strategy needs to be considered — and that means four elements: Dreamers; border security and a wall; chain migration; and an end to the diversity visa lottery.“Everybody wants to alter reality in a way that sort of suits their needs,” Mr. Cornyn said. “But the reality is the president said there has to be four pillars. People just need to accept that and deal with it.”On Wednesday night, Mr. Graham held a meeting with a far larger group of about 30 senators. They decided that Mr. Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, and Mr. Cornyn would each function as a clearinghouse for ideas on immigration from their respective parties.“We’ve got more people in the room, which is good,” Mr. Graham said. “We’re getting more input. We’ve just got to turn it into more output.”See More »Go to Home Page »Most of the 1,200 migrants moving through Mexico toward the United States are from Honduras, a country plagued by violence and recent political turmoil.MEXICO CITY — It has become a regular occurrence, particularly around the Easter holiday: scores or even hundreds of Central American migrants making their way north by foot and vehicle from southern Mexico. They include everyone from infants to the elderly, fleeing violence and poverty in their homelands.They travel in large groups — the current is one of the largest at about 1,200 participants — in part for protection against the kidnappers, muggers and rapists that stalk the migrant trail, but also to draw more attention to their plight. Some have the United States in mind, but many are only thinking as far as a new home in Mexico.Called “caravans,” most of the journeys, which date back at least five years, have moved forward with little fanfare, virtually unnoticed north of the border with the United States. But tweets by President Trump have suddenly turned the latest caravan into a major international incident and the most recent flash point in the politics of immigration in the United States.“Getting more dangerous,” the president tweeted on Sunday. “‘Caravans’ coming.”Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous. “Caravans” coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!On Monday, he warned that “our country is being stolen” by illegal immigration, blaming Democrats for weak border policies and urging Mexico to strengthen its border enforcement.“Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large ‘Caravans’ of people enter their country,” he said in a tweet.Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large “Caravans” of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws.....In interviews on Monday, the caravan’s organizers sounded frustrated, exhausted and dismayed.“We are not terrorists,” said Irineo Mujica, Mexico director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras — People Without Borders — a transnational advocacy group that is coordinating the current caravan and has organized others in recent years. He was speaking by phone from Matías Romero, a town in the state of Oaxaca in southwest Mexico where members of the caravan had spent the previous two nights, sleeping in a park.“We are not anarchists,” Mr. Mujica continued. “We try to help people to know their rights, things that we as human beings should be doing, try to advocate for human, sensible solutions.”Late Monday, Mexican immigration officials began negotiations with caravan organizers about how to deal with the migrants.Alex Mensing, project coordinator for Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said that the Mexican authorities had agreed to provide eligible migrants with humanitarian visas permitting them to remain in the country legally. Others would be provided with temporary transit passes, which usually last 20 days, allowing them to visit an immigration office and begin the process to legalize their status or travel to the United States border to apply for asylum or some other form of protection, Mr. Mensing said.Mexico’s Foreign Ministry and Interior Ministry, in a statement issued jointly late Monday, said the authorities had already deported 400 participants in the caravan since the event began more than a week ago, but confirmed that they were offering protections to the migrants “in cases where this is appropriate.”“Under no circumstances does the Mexican government promote irregular migration,” the statement said.Mr. Mensing said that processing details were still being worked out between government officials and the caravan organizers, but warned that should the process take too long, “it’s very possible that the caravan will reignite.”The migrant group left the southern Mexican border town of Tapachula on March 25, at that point numbering about 700. Most of the participants were from Honduras and many of them said they were fleeing violence and poverty in their home countries, organizers said. Some say they were inspired to flee Honduras following the violent suppression of political protests that erupted after last year’s presidential election.Over the past week, the group grew in size, to about 1,200 by the time it arrived in Matías Romero.But organizers said that contrary to the vision of a migrant onslaught on America conjured by Mr. Trump, most participants do not intend to travel as far as the border of the United States.“He’s trying to paint this as if we are trying to go to the border, and we’re going to storm the border,” Mr. Mujica said.Mr. Mensing added: “We’re definitely not looking for some kind of showdown.”In an interview Monday, before negotiations between the Mexican immigration authorities and the caravan organizers began, Mr. Mujica predicted that at most 10 percent to 15 percent of the participants would seek asylum at the American border.He said he expected many others to drop out along the way, especially if the caravan continued along its intended route through the state of Puebla and on to Mexico City, with some participants applying for asylum or other forms of protection in Mexico.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Puebla, Pueblo Sin Fronteras plans to hold workshops, led by volunteer lawyers, to teach migrants about options for legal protections in the region, including in Mexico and the United States.“We don’t promote going to the United States,” Mr. Mensing said. “It’s a challenging place to seek asylum.”“We are trying — as Mexicans, as Americans — to find solutions,” said Mr. Mujica, a Mexican-American who holds dual citizenship.In his Twitter posts on Sunday, Mr. Trump also asserted that many migrants trying to cross the border into the United States were seeking to “take advantage of” the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, that has provided protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children. Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program but was open to keeping it.But migrant-rights advocates, including coordinators of the latest caravan traversing Mexico, said these assertions were a White House invention.“It’s laughable!” Mr. Mujica said. “Most of the people don’t even know what DACA is. They know that it’s almost impossible to get into the United States. They know that they’re deporting everyone.”On Sunday, even Mexico’s secretary of foreign affairs, Luis Videgaray, weighed in, apparently in response Mr. Trump’s tweets that accused Mexico of lax immigration enforcement.“Every day Mexico and the U.S. work together on migration throughout the region,” he said on Twitter. “Facts clearly reflect this. An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter.”See More »Go to Home Page »President Trump complained about the $1.3 trillion spending bill, but said he signed it because it increases funding for the military.WASHINGTON — President Trump, hours after threatening to veto a $1.3 trillion spending bill and throwing the capital into turmoil, signed it into law on Friday, yielding to advisers and Republican leaders who urged him against manufacturing a government shutdown crisis.Even as he signed the bill, the president seethed about being forced to swallow legislation that broadly repudiated an agenda that once foresaw the reshaping of the federal government into his “America First” image.Enactment of the bipartisan spending package, which had seemed like a certainty at dawn, brought an end to hours of chaos at the White House, where Mr. Trump surprised his advisers — and Republican congressional leaders — with an angry morning tweet threatening to sink a measure that his aides had already promised he would sign.His stated reason was its lack of funding for his promised border wall, but that was only one disappointment for the president in a measure that blocked the hiring of thousands of new border patrol agents; stopped deep cuts to foreign aid, the diplomatic corps and environmental programs; thwarted a push to fund vouchers for private and parochial schools; and even rescued the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities.“There are a lot of things that I’m unhappy about in this bill,” Mr. Trump said during a hastily called event at the White House, where the president placed his hand on a foot-high copy of the 2,232-page bill he said he had just signed. “There are a lot of things that we shouldn’t have had in this bill. But we were, in a sense, forced — if we want to build our military — we were forced to have. There are some things that we should have in the bill.”In a rambling and disjointed statement from the Diplomatic Reception Room, Mr. Trump called the process that yielded the legislation “this ridiculous situation,” and he warned, “I will never sign another bill like this again — I’m not going to do it again.”The dramatic denouement for the spending bill, which drew fury from Mr. Trump’s core supporters, left both political parties in Washington reeling and some of his own aides bewildered about the president’s contradictory actions. Yet it was only the latest instance of Mr. Trump chafing against the advice of his advisers and throwing his own brand of chaos into the gears of the federal government.Mr. Trump’s grudging embrace only highlighted the degree to which a president who portrays himself as the ultimate dealmaker has been sidelined by congressional leaders in both parties when it comes to striking compromises to fund the core functions of government. Instead, Mr. Trump has proved unable to find a way to negotiate victories on some of his highest priorities.Ardent conservatives who are Mr. Trump’s core backers were left wondering aloud whether the president’s capitulation and failures would imperil Republicans’ chances of keeping control of Congress in the midterm elections this fall. Amy Kremer, a Tea Party activist who helped founded Women for Trump, tweeted, “I’m done.”Mr. Trump said the spending plan was important because it includes hundreds of billions of dollars in military spending to ensure that the United States has “by far the strongest military in the world.”“We had no choice but to fund our military,” Mr. Trump declared, reading aloud a series of military programs and weapons systems in the spending bill, including submarines, missile defense systems, tanks, helicopters and warships.But in a bizarre version of the usually upbeat bill-signing ceremonies at the White House, Mr. Trump then went on to denigrate the legislation as “crazy.”“Nobody read it,” Mr. Trump said of the gargantuan funding measure drawn up by Republican and Democratic leaders in the House and the Senate. Echoing criticism from those who voted against it, Mr. Trump added, “It’s only hours old.”He urged lawmakers to avoid passage of another so-called omnibus bill and to instead pass legislation giving him a line-item veto of spending measures, something that the Supreme Court has already ruled to be unconstitutional. He also called on the Senate to eliminate filibusters.“I looked very seriously at the veto,” Mr. Trump told reporters. “I was thinking about doing the veto.”If he had, it would almost certainly have shut down the government at midnight, just as hundreds of thousands of teenagers and adults were scheduled to descend on Washington for a gun control march on Saturday. With Congress on spring recess for two weeks starting Monday, many lawmakers had already departed Washington and some were on their way out of the country as part of official congressional delegations.The spending measure cleared Congress early Friday morning and, while Mr. Trump had made plain he was unhappy with some aspects of it, his senior advisers spent Thursday telling reporters that he would sign it. Then early Friday, on a morning when he watched a fierce backlash to the measure play out on Fox News, Mr. Trump seemed to hesitate, tweeting angrily about the lack of wall funding.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded,” Mr. Trump wrote.But the president was most angry about the lack of funding in the bill for an enormous wall across the nation’s southern border that he has billed as the centerpiece of his crackdown on illegal immigration. The measure includes nearly $1.6 billion for border security, including new technology and repairs to existing barriers — but not Mr. Trump’s wall, as he claimed on Twitter on Wednesday.It provides $641 million for about 33 miles of new fencing, but prohibits building a concrete structure or other prototypes the president has considered.Mr. Trump’s morning tweet set off a scramble on Capitol Hill and at the White House. Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, phoned Mr. Trump and encouraged him to sign the measure, according to a source familiar with the call, citing all the “wins” contained in the bill, especially for the military.The president’s top advisers rushed to bring in Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense, to make the case to Mr. Trump that he must sign the legislation because of its robust military funding. Within hours, Mr. Mattis was in the Oval Office with Mr. Trump telling him the level of military spending was “historic,” according to a senior White House official. Vice President Mike Pence, who had postponed a trip to deal with the crisis, also chimed in to make a case for signing the bill.The president relented. In his remarks not long after, Mr. Trump expressed disappointment and said he was “not happy” that the bill did not allocate the full $25 billion that the administration had requested for the wall. But he sought to claim some measure of victory, saying that $1.6 billion “does start the wall” and promising to “make that $1.6 billion go very, very far.”The political whiplash that he had put Washington through was reflected in Mr. Trump’s own comments. At times, he seemed to direct blame for the spending bill on Republican lawmakers. But later, he praised them for doing their best in a tough situation.“I just want to thank members of Congress for working so hard,” he said. “There are a lot of strings pulling everyone in different directions.”The president’s threat came as a surprise but hardly a shock to Republican leaders, who spent much of a snowy Wednesday privately imploring an agitated Mr. Trump to put aside his objections and back the measure, claiming it as a win.Sensing a political advantage, Democrats were unperturbed by Mr. Trump’s veto threat fire drill. Top Democratic aides said on Friday morning that they would not make concessions to Mr. Trump if he chose to reject the legislation, but lawmakers stayed silent until the president signed the bill. Then they cheered the measure as a disavowal of Mr. Trump’s ideas.“In sharp contrast to the devastating cuts called for in the Trump budget, the omnibus contains robust funding to combat homelessness, create new affordable housing and promote community development,” Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California and the minority leader, said in a statement. She added, “The omnibus also rejects the Trump administration’s cruel anti-immigrant agenda.”Mr. Trump said on Friday afternoon that it was Democrats who had balked at including an extension of DACA in the spending bill, claiming that Republicans wanted to protect immigrants from deportation but were blocked by Democrats.In fact, over the weekend, the White House offered to extend protections for hundreds of thousands of current DACA recipients for two and a half years, with no guarantee beyond that time, in exchange for $25 billion for the border wall, according to congressional aides.Democrats countered by saying they would agree to the full $25 billion only if the president agreed to a pathway to citizenship for a much broader population of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, well over a million people — a deal that was similar to an earlier offer from Mr. Trump.The White House rejected the Democratic offer.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Congressional leaders struggled on Friday to find a path forward on legislation to protect hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers after the Senate’s efforts collapsed into a partisan morass. Immigrant rights advocates, losing faith in the legislative process, nervously turned their attention to the courts.On Capitol Hill, both Democrats and Republicans said the future of the Dreamers — young undocumented immigrants who were brought here as children — may not be settled anytime soon. With Congress gone for a weeklong recess, there is no immediate opportunity for lawmakers to regroup after Thursday’s defeat of three Senate bills, including one backed by President Trump.In the Senate, some lawmakers — including Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican — have raised the possibility of pairing a simple provision protecting the Dreamers from deportation with funding for the president’s proposed wall at the southern border with Mexico, and slipping that package into a large spending bill that must pass in late March.“The clock is still ticking,” Mr. Cornyn said. “We kind of had test votes here. We kind of know what the tolerance is for different ideas.”The uncertain outlook in Congress is matched by uncertainty in the courts. Two federal courts have blocked the Trump administration from ending DACA, but the Trump administration is seeking to have those court rulings overturned. On Friday, the Supreme Court convened a closed-door conference to consider whether to bypass appellate courts and take up the issue immediately.If that happens, legal experts say, the administration will almost certainly prevail.“Let’s not kid ourselves, it’s looking increasingly grim,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group.Cannot believe how BADLY DACA recipients have been treated by the Democrats...totally abandoned! Republicans are still working hard.Immigration has long been one of the most intractable issues in Washington. The Senate Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had set aside this week for what was supposed to have been a freewheeling debate that would allow senators to build a bipartisan immigration bill from scratch.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We still have time,” Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia and a chairman of the coalition. “I think that the people are totally committed to it are going to want to get back together.”But even if the group does get back together, it will almost certainly run into trouble coming up with an immigration plan that will meet Mr. Trump’s conditions. The president wants to severely limit family-based migration and cancel the diversity visa lottery, which aims to bring in immigrants from underrepresented countries.Republicans and Democrats agree that there is now a very slim chance that legislation will pass offering citizenship to the Dreamers. With the Senate debate over, the White House is backing the House measure, which proposes a more far-reaching rewrite of immigration laws than even the president considered.The House bill would require employers to use an Internet-based system, known as E-Verify, to confirm that they are hiring only legal workers; crack down on so-called sanctuary cities by denying them federal grants; allow for the detention of minors who are arrested at the border with their parents; and toughen sentences for criminals who return illegally after being deported.The measure would end the diversity visa lottery program, as Mr. Trump wants, and end family-based migration for all relatives other than spouses and minor children. It would offer three-year renewable work permits to DACA recipients, without offering them a path to citizenship.In the Senate, Mr. Flake is trying to gather support for a measure that would simply extend DACA by three years, without offering a path to citizenship, in exchange for three years of border-wall funding. Such a bill could be attached to the spending measure that must pass by March 23, when funding for the government runs out. Democrats might not agree to wall funding without a path to citizenship for the Dreamers. And even Mr. Flake did not sound enthusiastic about that prospect.“This is a failure of Congress to act responsibly here,” he said.The negotiations over the spending bill, which would keep the government open until the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year, will play out in the next few weeks. But a continued impasse over immigration could again raise the threat of yet another government shutdown, on top of the two brief closures that have already occurred this year.Once again, Democratic votes will be needed to pass the spending bill, since 60 votes are required in the Senate, where Republicans hold only 51 seats, and numerous fiscally conservative Republicans are very likely to vote against it in the House.Lawmakers were already on a collision course over immigration as part of the negotiations of a long-term spending bill. Both the House and Senate plans for funding the Department of Homeland Security for the current fiscal year would provide $1.6 billion for physical barriers along the southern border with Mexico.The wall funding is a probable flash point between the two parties, as Democrats are loath to grant Mr. Trump his wish of building it.If Congress were to approve a spending bill without wall funding, Mr. Trump could veto it. The president has already shown an appetite for such a confrontation, saying this month that he would “love to see a shutdown” if his demands on immigration are not met.See More »Go to Home Page »Ms. Nyong’o and Mr. Nanjiani, without mentioning the politics of immigration directly, briefly spoke about dreams being the “foundation of Hollywood” and the United States. Mr. Nanjiani, who is nominated for best original screenplay for “The Big Sick,” closed by saying, “To all the dreamers out there, we stand with you.” Here’s what they said:What HappenedAnalysisRed CarpetWinnersSee More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOur subject today is Donald Trump’s mind.Not the speculation about whether he’s losing his marbles. That was during our “Fire and Fury” period last week.Now we’re thinking about that lovely bipartisan meeting the president hosted Tuesday with members of Congress about immigration. Everybody was impressed by how concerned Trump seemed to be about all the young Dreamers suddenly facing possible deportation.“I came out feeling the president had made it very clear he wants this resolved ASAP,” said Steny Hoyer, the House Democratic whip.The only problem is that Trump seems to be committed to two totally contradictory ideas on what to do. Is he being your typical pol? Your typical loony person? Something in between? Let’s revisit.Right now the real immigration crisis is about the 800,000 young people who were brought here illegally as children and given protection under the Obama administration.Trump hates calling them Dreamers, so he refers to them as “the DACA population,” after the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that protected them. Until he terminated it.They could be in danger of deportation beginning in March. The Tuesday Trump was very disturbed about this situation. Really, you’d hardly have known that he was the one who created it. He called for “a bill of love” to make things right.The fix is actually pretty easy. There’s a bipartisan bill floating around the House right now that would protect the Dreamers from deportation and add more money for technology to guard the border. Then later on, if it’s feeling ambitious, Congress could tackle a big immigration reform. That would include a path to citizenship for many of the illegal immigrants here now and some sops to conservatives, like restrictions on their ability to bring in relatives.And yeah, maybe some wall equivalent. We don’t need to discuss that now. The Dreamers are an immediate crisis. But even if you thought building a monstrous multibillion-dollar barrier along the border was a good idea, it’s not something that’s going to happen anytime soon.Here is the current vision in the president’s mind:“We don’t need a wall where you have rivers and mountains and everything else protecting it,” he told that congressional meeting. “But we do need a wall for a fairly good portion. We also — as you know, it was passed in 2006 — a essentially similar thing which — a fence, a very substantial fence was passed. But unfortunately, I don’t know, they never got it done. But they need it.”So, O.K.Senator Dianne Feinstein proposed doing “a clean DACA bill now” followed by a major immigration reform later. Trump thought that was a great idea. “We’re going to do DACA,” he announced, “and then we can start immediately on the phase two, which would be comprehensive.”So easy, so bipartisan, so … bill of love.“We’re on the same page,” Trump told the gathering.“We are, we are,” said Representative Henry Cuellar of Texas, a Democrat who had been arguing strenuously against the wall idea.Then Wednesday the president shouted “No! No! No!” when asked if he’d be open to any deal on the immediately endangered Dreamers that didn’t also involve his Mexican wall.This was at an appearance with the poor prime minister of Norway, who had to look sympathetic when Trump managed to find ways — in a rather short press conference — to brag about the American trade surplus with her country, say “no collusion” seven times, brag about winning the Electoral College and attack Hillary Clinton. (“But Hillary was not for a strong military, and Hillary, my opponent, was for windmills. …”) Plus torpedo the DACA plan.So Trump, who told those Congress members he would “take the heat” for anything they wanted to do to save the Dreamers, threw up a wall. How do we explain all this?A) Situational ethics.B) Extreme dementia.C) Just another day.Here’s an answer. We are well aware by now that there are several incarnations of the president, from the Somewhat Normal Republican Trump (SNORT) to the Nearly Unhinged Trump (NUT). The one we saw at the bipartisan meeting was the Reasonable Chatty Trump, whose pleasant disposition makes up for the fact that the initials don’t spell anything.The Reasonable version can sit through a fairly long gathering nodding, agreeing, making the occasional joke and appearing to be an excellent listener. When he’s actually not paying any attention at all.What do you think was actually on Trump’s mind when Feinstein asked that question?A) Picturing Steve Bannon curled up in the fetal position, crying under his bed.B) Imagining the networks swooning over his warmhearted concern for those … DACA persons.C) Just cheeseburgers.Your guess is as good as mine. But the great part of this tactic is that everybody walks away feeling they’ve made a real impression. Until it becomes clear that nothing ever sinks in.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSA father of two who lived in a Detroit suburb and was brought into the country illegally nearly 30 years ago, when he was 10 years old, was deported to Mexico on Monday after his removal had been postponed for several years.“We’re devastated. We’re sad, we’re depressed,” Cindy Garcia, his wife, said in a phone interview on Tuesday. “We’re trying to be strong, pull ourselves together and tell our story.”Ms. Garcia is a United States citizen. She said her husband, 39, worked as a landscaper and did not have a criminal record. He had tried to change his immigration status in 2005 by applying for a green card, but “the lawyer that we had at that time was incompetent and she filed the wrong paperwork,” Ms. Garcia said.For Mr. Garcia, one of an estimated 11 million unauthorized immigrants living in the United States, getting a green card was not easy.“The interviews and processing of green cards is extraordinarily slow and challenging,” said Sara Curran, a migration expert and the director of the Center for Studies in Demography and Ecology at the University of Washington.That is especially true for those who are living in the country illegally.“Not only could you put yourself at risk, but if you don’t have a good enough attorney, then it’s pretty hard to get through the system without being caught up by a technicality,” Ms. Curran said.Mr. Garcia was ordered removed by an immigration judge in 2006, said Khaalid Walls, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in a statement on Tuesday. Mr. Garcia appealed the ruling, Mr. Walls said, and was told he could voluntarily leave.“After he failed to depart within the timeline of the agreement, he became subject to a final order of removal in 2009,” the statement said. “ICE exercised prosecutorial discretion on multiple prior occasions in Mr. Garcia-Martinez’s case in 2011, 2012 and 2014.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Garcia’s deportation was continually delayed during his annual meetings with immigration officials, Ms. Garcia said.“They knew we were trying to fix his status,” Ms. Garcia said.This year, however, was different.“The officer told us because of the new Trump administration, because he had an order of supervision and an order of deportation, he had to leave,” Ms. Garcia said.With the program, Mr. Obama was aiming to “appease his fairly well-mobilized DACA community — mobilized in part because of the crackdown he initiated,” Ms. Curran said.Ms. Garcia said her husband had asked the immigration officials to wait until new DACA legislation passed, with the hope that the age limit might be modified, but the request was denied.“As ICE Deputy Director Thomas Homan has made clear, ICE does not exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement,” Mr. Walls said in the statement.Mr. Garcia is still pursuing a green card, his wife said. But it could take up to 18 months to arrange a visit with the consulate in Mexico.She urged others to be sympathetic toward the issue of immigration.“Get to know the facts before you make a judgment,” she said. “And realize that children are being affected emotionally, psychologically.”Doris Burke contributed research.See More »Go to Home Page »INTERNATIONAL••NEW YORKSPORTSWEEKEND ARTS•STYLESSCIENCEREAL ESTATEOBITUARIESGo to Home Page »WASHINGTON — For years, immigration advocates have defined hundreds of thousands of young people brought to the country illegally as children by the sympathetic term “Dreamers.” Long irritated by the rhetorical branding, President Trump finally came up with his own rejoinder: “Americans are Dreamers, too.”Although Mr. Trump characterized his immigration proposal as a “down-the-middle compromise,” his speech further alienated him from the bipartisan group of lawmakers trying to negotiate a deal. Rather than act as a catalyst for cooperation, it seemed to only deepen the divide. And it underlined the political ramifications of the nativist language that the president used in the 2016 campaign and during his first year in office.“The Democrats are going to be even less disposed to do anything the president suggests even if it’s in their interest,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates more limits on immigration. And “it hardens attitudes among Republicans that the Democrats are simply unreasonable and you can’t talk to them.”Jason Grumet, the president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, an organization in Washington that favors an agreement, said Mr. Trump clearly wanted to reach an immigration deal but was not receiving good advice about how to achieve that. “Last night’s speech didn’t preclude a deal, but it sure squandered an opportunity to advance one,” he said.In the address, Mr. Trump offered what he called an “open hand” on the issue of immigration and challenged Congress to “finally get the job done” on a long-delayed overhaul of the system. But in describing the outlines of a plan that he said “fulfills my ironclad pledge to sign a bill that puts America first,” Mr. Trump turned to the disturbing imagery of teenage girls murdered by immigrant members of the MS-13 gang.With their parents in the audience, Mr. Trump described the night that “these two precious girls were brutally murdered while walking together in their hometown.” Asking the parents to stand, the president said: “Tonight, everyone in this chamber is praying for you. Everyone in America is grieving for you.”Democrats, in particular, reacted angrily, saying the president was linking immigration to gang violence and murder. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, called the remarks “dangerous” and counterproductive to resolving the debate over the fate of the Dreamers.“The president presents himself as generous toward Dreamers, but he’s holding them hostage to the most extreme anti-immigrant agenda in generations,” Ms. Pelosi said. “We heard more insulting words of ignorance and prejudice — prejudice toward patriotic immigrant families last night.”In Twitter posts, speeches and interviews, President Trump has expressed variety in his tone and viewpoint, sometimes on the same issue.They also heard Mr. Trump try to appropriate the term Dreamer with his applause line about Americans. Publicly and privately, the president has recoiled at using the nickname, instead referring to them as “the DACA people” or the “folks from DACA,” after the acronym for President Barack Obama’s program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, that gives them work permits and protection from deportation. During a White House dinner with the top Democrats in Congress in the fall, Mr. Trump urged them not to use the word Dreamers in public.The term Dreamers was tied to legislation that has never passed Congress called the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act, or the Dream Act. Mr. Krikorian said that for too long, liberals had been able to set the terms of the debate. “The very notion, Dreamers, was a marketing coup quite frankly,” he said. “The president’s attempt at taking back the term Dreamers is likely to resonate.”Stephen Miller, the president’s top immigration adviser, and other aides devised a four-part plan to carefully navigate the difficult political terrain that has prevented numerous earlier attempts to overhaul immigration during the past two decades.Part 1 was a concession to immigration activists that would give 1.8 million young immigrants a path to citizenship, effectively restoring and expanding Mr. Obama’s DACA program by enshrining it into law. Part 2 would create a $25 billion trust fund for a border wall. Part 3 would end decades of rules allowing legal immigrants to bring their families to the country. And Part 4 would shut down a lottery program aimed at encouraging immigration from underrepresented countries.The White House described the plan last week as “extremely generous” and predicted that it would gain wide support from both sides of the aisle. That was probably overly optimistic.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Senators from both parties met before Mr. Trump’s speech on Tuesday to continue negotiations — but without much regard to his four-point plan. One Democratic aide said that the group was largely ignoring the president’s proposals and was making good progress toward a measure that could receive at least the 60 votes needed to break a filibuster. Staff members for the group are scheduled to continue discussions over the weekend.White House officials dismissed the criticism, pointing to instant polls that showed that large numbers of people agreed with the president’s immigration comments and noting that the speech drew positive reaction from Republicans, conservatives and law enforcement officials.“It made by heart swell to hear him say Americans have dreams, too,” said Mary Ann Mendoza, whose son was killed in a head-on collision with a car driven by an illegal immigrant who was high on meth. She said Mr. Trump had made a good-faith immigration proposal. “I think the Democrats need to embrace that. They need to go into it with an open mind and get to work.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, rejected the notion that Mr. Trump was refusing to compromise as “laughable.” She pointed out that the president’s plan would provide legal status for nearly three times the number of people who had signed up for protection from deportation under the DACA program started by Mr. Obama.Mr. Trump’s advisers insisted that Democratic complaints were more evidence that liberal lawmakers did not want to find a solution to fix the immigration system and protect young immigrants.“They simply are sitting on their hands and being angry instead of coming to the table to have real negotiations,” Ms. Sanders said Wednesday on CNN.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Senate negotiators found themselves back at Square 1 on immigration on Tuesday, as the Senate Democratic leader withdrew the biggest gesture he had made to strike a deal: an offer to fully fund President Trump’s proposed wall at the Mexican border.Mr. Schumer’s decision to renege, made on Sunday but revealed publicly on Tuesday, marked another turn in the fluid debate over how to shield from deportation hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children.As part of a deal to end the shutdown, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, promised what he called a “fair and open” immigration debate on the Senate floor.But just when that debate will happen, and what legislation will serve as its starting point, was unclear on Tuesday. Several bipartisan groups were meeting to try to address the fate of the young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, but the withdrawal of Mr. Schumer’s offer brought a fresh round of partisan recriminations that could threaten those nascent talks.“If he wants a solution, that’s a step backward,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate.Further muddying the conversation, the White House refuses to acknowledge the offer that Senate leaders on both sides of the aisle have confirmed.“Senator Schumer is trying to rescind an offer that he never made in the first place, and misled the public about,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Now the Senate has a new immigration deadline: Feb. 8, the date that a stopgap spending measure approved on Monday will expire. Mr. McConnell has said that if the fate of the young undocumented immigrants is not resolved by then, he will allow the floor debate on immigration.“What came out of this mess was a date certain to move on immigration,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a longtime advocate of an immigration overhaul who has been deeply involved in the bipartisan talks. “That’s positive. Whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, we’re now moving on immigration. That wouldn’t have happened without this conflict.”But hard-liners on immigration were not budging.“I think the top priority for Senate Democrats is amnesty for people here illegally,” said Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. “They just shut the government down over amnesty, and so I don’t think Senator Schumer and Senate Democrats are interested in securing the border.”Such voices would dominate debate in the House, where twice, in the Obama and George W. Bush presidencies, bipartisan comprehensive overhauls of the nation’s immigration laws have died. But senators, given the green light by their leaders, pressed ahead.If nothing else, passage of a bipartisan immigration bill in the Senate would shift the political focus to the House, where the bulk of the 2018 election will be fought.But one thing is certain: The president and his allies on Capitol Hill will almost certainly reject any proposal that does not include funding for the “big, beautiful wall” that Mr. Trump promised to build along the southern border, though he had said Mexico would pay for it.The administration has asked Congress for $18 billion to build the wall; Mr. Cornyn said that in negotiations with the White House before the shutdown, Mr. Schumer had offered the president $25 billion. A spokesman for Mr. Schumer declined to comment but did not dispute the figure.But Mr. Schumer said he rescinded the offer because Mr. Trump had rejected the rest of the immigration package.“The wall offer was made as part of a broader deal. The president rejected that broader deal, so the offer is off the table,” Mr. Schumer said.Mr. Graham said he had a message for the administration. “To my friends at the White House: You’ve been all over the board,” he said. “You haven’t been a reliable partner, and the Senate is going to move. Please be constructive as we go forward. If you’ve got any ideas, let us know, but the Senate is going to lead on this issue.”The week before the shutdown, a bipartisan group of six senators led by Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Mr. Graham proposed a measure that would have provided a path to citizenship for DACA recipients, as well as more than $2.5 billion for border security and a grant of protected status for the parents of the Dreamers, who would be barred from sponsoring their parents for citizenship.But Mr. Trump objected to that plan during a White House meeting in which he used vulgar, insulting language to describe African immigrants. That rejection and the ensuing firestorm set back the talks.There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.At the White House on Tuesday, Ms. Sanders underscored the administration’s opposition to the proposal. From the briefing room podium, Ms. Sanders rejected it as a potential part of a framework for a new deal.“It’s totally unacceptable to the president and should be declared dead on arrival,” she told reporters.But in a reflection of how much the debate has revolved around bluster instead of substance, Ms. Sanders said at the same briefing that she did not think the sides were “that far apart.”That was not the sense on Capitol Hill on Tuesday. Lawmakers who have been working to resolve the DACA recipients’ status confessed that they did not know where they were headed. Asked what the next step would be, Mr. Durbin shrugged.“I don’t know the answer,” he said. “I went to a meeting yesterday, a bipartisan meeting of senators, and we’ll see where it goes.”While Mr. Durbin has suggested that the Durbin-Graham proposal should be the starting point for negotiations, Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has been a key participant in the bipartisan talks and has a history of bucking his party on immigration, said that would not be the case.“We’ve negotiated a lot of these things,” Mr. Flake said. “We know where the contours are. But we’re not starting with any template.”Talks that helped end the shutdown were led by a group of about 25 senators — Republicans, Democrats and an independent — who called themselves the Common Sense Coalition. They met in the office of Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.Ms. Collins said Tuesday that while she did not intend for that group to pre-empt other efforts on immigration, its members “will be getting together to figure out if there’s a role for us to play.”But any effort to pull the Senate to the center on immigration will almost certainly be met with resistance from hard-liners, among them Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, who said he was “already in the center of the immigration conversation.”Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »There’s been a lot of finger-pointing between Republicans and Democrats, and the future of young undocumented immigrants hangs in the balance.Democrats forced the federal government to shut down by saying there could be no budget deal without a deal on the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. Republicans have refused to end the shutdown by saying there can be no DACA deal without a budget deal.There’s been a lot of finger-pointing between the two parties, and the future of young undocumented immigrants hangs in the balance.On today’s episode:Background reading:If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter and Christopher Werth, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byLetterTo the Editor:DACA was never meant to be a permanent solution. Young people with DACA are still second-class citizens. They can’t vote. They can’t get federal financial aid for college. There are a host of licensed professions not open to them in many states. Job applications often insist on American citizenship, rendering them ineligible.DACA was a bridge, not a landing point. Let’s do right by these young people we’ve already spent much time and money on and give them full citizenship. Only then can we hope to realize their true potential.SUZANNE CHAZIN, CHAPPAQUA, N.Y.The writer is the author of a series of novels about undocumented Hispanic immigrants.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va. — President Trump turned up the pressure on Democrats on Thursday to come to an agreement with Republicans on protections for young undocumented immigrants, asserting that opposition leaders “talk a good game” but cared more about politics than actually resolving the matter.In a speech to Republican lawmakers at their annual retreat, Mr. Trump complained that Democrats were unwilling to budge and would rather see him fail than make progress on immigration or other issues that would benefit the country. At the same time, he warned his fellow Republicans that they would have to make compromises themselves to reach a deal.Mr. Trump moved in September to end the DACA program, which grants work permits to immigrants brought to the country illegally as children and protects them from deportation, on the grounds that President Barack Obama exceeded his authority by creating it through executive action. But Mr. Trump has expressed support for protecting those immigrants, known as Dreamers, through legislation if Congress can agree. He gave lawmakers until March 5 to take action, though his cancellation of the program is now tied up in the court system.The president’s comments on Thursday in his speech at the retreat, held at the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia, came hours after he denounced Democrats on Twitter for “doing nothing about DACA.”March 5th is rapidly approaching and the Democrats are doing nothing about DACA. They Resist, Blame, Complain and Obstruct - and do nothing. Start pushing Nancy Pelosi and the Dems to work out a DACA fix, NOW!He pressed his point all day, repeating similar themes in an evening speech to the Republican National Committee in Washington and then again in a late-night Twitter post from the White House.In Twitter posts, speeches and interviews, President Trump has expressed variety in his tone and viewpoint, sometimes on the same issue.Mr. Trump expanded on that on Thursday at the Republican retreat, rejecting the term. “Some people call it Dreamers,” he said. “It’s not Dreamers. Don’t fall into that trap.”The president expressed pique at Democrats for not applauding during his State of the Union address, even when he hailed record-low unemployment rates among black and Hispanic people.“When I made that statement the other night, there was zero movement from the Democrats,” he said. “They sat there stone cold, no smile, no applause. You would have thought that on that one they would have sort of at least clapped a little bit. Which tells you perhaps they’d rather see us not do well than see our country do great.”Democrats resent his claiming credit for falling unemployment among African-Americans not just because he has engaged in racially provocative feuds and equivocated over a white supremacist rally but because the fall in joblessness among blacks began six years before he took office.Mr. Trump also assailed Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, for minimizing the bonuses that some companies are paying workers, citing Mr. Trump’s tax cuts. Ms. Pelosi has said workers were getting “crumbs” compared with what corporations were receiving from the tax cuts and Mr. Trump compared it with Hillary Clinton’s use of the word “deplorables” to describe many of his supporters in 2016.“She called it crumbs when people are getting $2,000 and $3,000 and $1,000,” Mr. Trump said. “That’s not crumbs. That’s a lot of money.”Ms. Pelosi’s office responded by saying that Republicans were taking her words out of context to cover up the fact that their tax law enriches their wealthy donors at the expense of working people. “What’s deplorable is Republicans’ desperate effort to hide the multibillion-dollar corporate windfalls of the G.O.P. tax scam behind a handful of meager, one-time bonuses,” said Drew Hammill, her spokesman.As he addressed the Republican retreat, Mr. Trump took time to affirm that the past year had been filled with successes. He noted that months ago, critics were complaining that he had not kept his promises.“Now we’ve fulfilled far more promises than we promised,” he said, adding, “I call it ‘promises plus.’”In his remarks here, Mr. Trump reprised many of the elements of his State of the Union speech but put a particular focus on immigration, seeming intent on pressuring Republicans as well as Democrats to come to the table.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We’re going to have to compromise unless we elect more Republicans, in which case we can have it just the way everybody in this room wants it,” he said. “We have to be willing to give a little in order for our country to gain a whole lot.”Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Senate Republican, suggested that the best approach might be to narrow the scope of the legislation to only two of the four “pillars” that the president has proposed addressing, leaving out family-based immigration and the diversity visa lottery.“I think that if we can solve DACA and border security, that may be the best we can hope for,” he said. He described such a plan as a “fallback position that can pass the House, the Senate and get signed,” adding that if “other issues enter into that conversation, it gets more complicated.”With Republicans gathered for their retreat, their internal divisions over immigration were plainly visible, and the road ahead was far from clear. A schedule for the retreat listed no sessions on the subject.“I’m not interested in a skinny version on immigration,” Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, said hours after Mr. Thune offered his suggestion.Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, quickly dismissed Mr. Thune’s idea of a narrowed bill as well.“Senator Thune represents a state that’s a long ways from the southern border,” he said. “Making a suggestion that a two-pillar answer is going to get support in the House is a nonstarter.”Thomas Kaplan reported from White Sulphur Springs, and Peter Baker from Washington. Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byThe Republicans are led by a bigoted, incompetent president whose approval ratings are near historic lows. The Republicans in Congress embrace one unpopular policy option after another, so that all the signs pointed to a G.O.P. blood bath in the midterm elections.All of this has left those of us in the pundit class with a frustrating problem. Obviously, the Democrats were going to find some way to screw this up. But no matter how much we pulled and stretched our imaginations, we couldn’t quite figure out how exactly they were going to do it.Et Voilà!In just one short week the Democrats have succeeded in failing with a brilliant five-part plan.It’s not that people don’t like DACA. They do. It’s that they just don’t recognize themselves in a party that thinks it’s worth closing the government, destabilizing the economy and straining the military for it.The Democrats captured this same paradoxical profundity with their superb messaging over the weekend: We bravely shut down the government to save the Dreamers even though Donald Trump is responsible for shutting down the government.The ancient Chinese master bows in respect.But of course the problem was not that the leadership capitulated on Monday. It was that the Democrats talked themselves into this crazy position on Friday.The Democrats are the party that believes in government. It doesn’t do them any good to make the federal government look dysfunctional. The Democrats are trying to defend a bunch of seats in red states. This immigration über alles strategy was never going to play well there. The Democratic presidential contenders are going to be a big problem for the Democratic Senate candidates.Democrats, when you lose a negotiation to a president who doesn’t know his own position, you’ve really impressed me.It’s fitting that we had a government shutdown over the issue of immigration. Racially tinged conflict has been the defining feature of the Trump era. Most of the outrage has been caused by the president picking at the nation’s wounds. But by now both parties have racial identity wings, which believe that political life is inevitably a power competition between identity groups. Both parties build their coalitions by magnifying racial identity and exploiting racial difference.But there are some of us who are uncomfortable with the whole identity-politics drill. We believe that while racism is the central stain on American history, racial conflict is not inevitable. By reducing inequalities, by integrating daily life, we can eventually make our common humanity more salient and our racial difference less so. We believe that America has already made strides in this direction and that it’s everyone’s responsibility to make racial diversity a creative spark and not a source of permanent hostility.One of these days some party should pay attention to us folks.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local):11:25 a.m.President Donald Trump says Mexico has "got to help us at the border."Trump says a lot of people are coming into the U.S. from Mexico because they want to take advantage of a U.S. program that protects "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.Trump ended the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last year, though a federal judge has ordered the administration to continue renewing permits.Months of negotiations between the White House and lawmakers in both parties have failed to produce a deal to protect the "Dreamers."Trump tweeted about the issue before he attended Easter services at a church near his Palm Beach, Florida, home.Asked about the tweets, Trump blamed Democrats, saying they blew a "great, great chance" to make a deal.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump is attending Easter services at an Episcopal church near his home in Palm Beach, Florida.The president was accompanied by his wife, Melania, and daughter Tiffany.He was expected to return to his Mar-a-Lago estate afterward to join other families for annual Easter festivities, including brunch and an Easter egg hunt.Trump has attended the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea for years. It's also where he and the first lady got married in 2005.The president opened the religious holiday by tweeting "HAPPY EASTER!" to his many followers. He complained in a follow-up tweet about "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that he says make it harder for Border Patrol agents to do their jobs. He also said a deal to help immigrants known as "Dreamers" was "NO MORE."___10:40 a.m.President Donald Trump says he'll stop Mexico's "cash cow" unless it does more to stop its people from crossing into the U.S.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump tweets on Easter that Mexico is doing next to "NOTHING" to stop illegal immigration and laughs "at our dumb immigration laws." The president adds that Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"The U.S., Canada and Mexico are currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA hurts the U.S.Trump promised during the presidential campaign to build a southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming in from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated the president by not moving as quickly on the wall as he would like.___10:25 a.m.President Donald Trump is claiming that Border Patrol agents can't do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweets on Easter that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He offers no information to back up his claims.Trump also says Republicans in charge of the Senate "must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW."Senate rules require 60 votes for legislation in the 100-member Senate. Republicans only control 51 seats, and GOP Senate leaders basically have rejected Trump's calls to change the longstanding rules.Trump also says "NO MORE DACA DEAL!" to help immigrants known as "Dreamers."Go to Home Page »Supported byNothing affects Mexico more than United States immigration policy, and the centrality of the issue in American politics is more prominent than ever.The second pillar — $25 billion for a border wall — is obviously offensive to Mexico, but the country’s lame-duck president, Enrique Peña Nieto, has been much more adamant in his opposition to paying for the wall than to its actual construction. Mr. Peña Nieto either doesn’t believe it will ever see the light of day or lacks the backbone to oppose it. But Mr. Trump’s wall is something Mexico can simultaneously reject and live with, particularly if it will take years to build and if it merely complements segments of fences erected by Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Obama.Since the largest group of foreigners applying for family reunification is by far Mexican (three times as many as Chinese citizens, for example), this would reduce the number of applicants from Mexico who get green cards. Nearly 200,000 Mexicans got green cards in fiscal year 2016; halving that number through a lengthy and tedious procedure that frustrates many Mexicans would not be as bad as shutting down the whole program.So, viewed somewhat cynically from the perspective of strict Mexican national interests, the four-pillar plan has inconveniences for Mexico but also many advantages. That it is racist as well as unworthy of the American immigration ideal and inflames the worst demons in American society is another matter. As Mr. Trump says, countries have to look out for their own interests.To make this plan attractive to Mexico, its leaders need to persuade the American president to increase the number of temporary-worker visas. Again, by far the largest number of these permits are extended to Mexicans. H-2A visas, for seasonal agricultural workers, have no congressional cap; H-2B visas, for seasonal nonagricultural activities, do, but it can be lifted and has been for several years. The Trump administration can increase these numbers significantly without congressional approval.An immense reconstruction effort is underway in Texas and Florida after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma and, with virtual full employment, there is a huge demand for low-skilled, low-wage labor in those regions. It can come only from Mexico.Were Mr. Peña Nieto to make such a suggestion and were Mr. Trump to accept it, both countries’ interests would be well served.In the early years of this century, a comprehensive package like this was called “the whole enchilada.” Half a loaf, or whatever nutritional metaphor one prefers, is not bad.Jorge G. Castañeda, Mexico’s foreign minister from 2000 to 2003, is a professor at New York University, a member of the board of Human Rights Watch, and a contributing opinion writer.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSACRAMENTO — The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez had been summoned to the White House for an urgent meeting, and with so much at stake, he decided that he needed a blessing.He looked out at the Latino families jammed into his evangelical church in Sacramento on a recent Sunday and called on Stephania Herrera, a youth pastor who had come to the United States illegally when she was 10 years old. Ms. Herrera has been allowed to remain in the country under a program known as DACA. But with that program coming to an end, Mr. Rodriguez was to meet with White House aides to discuss how to save people like Ms. Herrera, known as Dreamers, from deportation.“Father,” Ms. Herrera said in Spanish, closing her eyes, gripping the microphone with her left hand and holding her pastor’s hand high with her right, “You have placed him in this place, at this time, in this hour, with a great purpose, and we unite as one believing in your purpose. We ask that you send him covered in favor — send him in power — send him with authority.”The meeting in Washington would not end in success. At President Trump’s urging, Mr. Rodriguez agreed to support a deal that would allow the Dreamers to stay, in exchange for Congress authorizing funding for a border wall, cutting legal immigration and limiting family reunification. But the proposal went nowhere in Congress. And more than a month later, the long-term prospects for roughly 700,000 Dreamers remain in limbo.Mr. Rodriguez represents a singular voice in the immigration debate — the rare Latino in the small clique of evangelicals who serve as informal advisers to President Trump. At the president’s inauguration last year, Mr. Rodriguez was one of only six members of the clergy invited to give a prayer at the ceremony. He has been to the White House or taken part in conference calls so many times since then that he has lost count. But the impasse over the Dreamers has tested whether he has any real influence.He thinks of himself as a modern-day Joseph in Pharaoh’s court, placed there to save his people and advance the common good.“If I’m not there, then what fills that vacuum?” he said in a recent telephone interview. “I know I will be criticized — I get that — but I have to stand up. It’s part of the calling.”Others question why he is advising a president who has characterized Mexicans as rapists and murderers, who ended the DACA program and who wants to curb all immigration, both illegal and legal.Gaby Pacheco, a Hispanic evangelical and one of the original organizers of the Dreamers movement, said she spent years traveling around the country “building bridges” with Republicans and conservative evangelicals, trying to explain the Dreamers’ predicament to them. She said that she and two fellow Dreamers even visited Mr. Trump at Trump Tower in New York City in 2013, shared their stories with him, and were excited when he told them, “You’ve convinced me.” Mr. Trump took them downstairs afterward and bought them Trump-brand ties, an Ivanka Trump watch and copies of his books.She has since soured on Mr. Trump, though, and on Mr. Rodriguez. She said that the pastor had “crossed a boundary” by serving on Mr. Trump’s advisory board and participating in his inauguration.“To some extent, I feel like Sam gives Trump cover and is emboldening Trump, because he stands by him,” said Ms. Pacheco, 33, who lives in Miami and now has a green card. “Just because I’m willing to have conversations and try to change his views on immigrants doesn’t mean I would serve on his advisory board,” she said. “That’s legitimizing him.”Mr. Rodriguez represents a growing segment of the evangelical movement, and one that is often overlooked in all the attention paid to the white evangelicals serving as Mr. Trump’s cheerleaders. One in four evangelicals in the United States is now an immigrant or the child of one. In the younger generation of evangelicals, there are now more Hispanic people than non-Hispanic whites.On litmus-test social issues like abortion and homosexuality, many Hispanic evangelicals hold conservative views, just as most other evangelicals do.Mr. Rodriguez argues that immigrants and their descendants are the future of the evangelical movement, and they could be the future of the Republican Party, too, if only it avoids falling into the trap of alienating immigrants and their supporters.“President Trump got elected on a commitment of protecting America and building a wall,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “I believe in border security, too. I just want him to build a bridge simultaneously. The immigrant community is America’s greatest blessing in the 21st century. And I want everyone from the White House to all the branches of government to affirm it.”A month after the election, Mr. Rodriguez brokered a conference call among 30 Hispanic church leaders and the Trump transition team that produced a public promise from Mr. Trump that the Dreamers would be protected and families would not be torn apart. Mr. Rodriguez was convinced that his entreaties to the president on immigration had gotten through, based on Mr. Trump’s assertion that, “as a father and a grandfather,” he had sympathy for the Dreamers.But in the months that followed, Mr. Rodriguez watched as federal immigration agents stepped up deportations across the country — not just of criminals, but of “law-abiding, God-fearing, hard-working people,” he said. Parents were being separated from their children, he said, which was scaring people from going out. The seats at Sunday services were so empty one weekend, he said, that “we thought the Rapture took place.”In September, Mr. Trump rescinded the DACA program. Mr. Rodriguez swung into high gear, mobilizing Hispanic pastors to visit their legislators at the Capitol. He appeared at a news conference with Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House, to push a bipartisan compromise.His position, he said in an interview, was basically this: “Give the man his wall. Whatever. Give him the wall, and let’s just save these young people.”Mr. Rodriguez, 48, was raised in the Rust Belt city of Bethlehem, Pa., where Poles, Slavs, Ukrainians and Italians were the predominant ethnic communities. His family came from Puerto Rico. Though he was part of the first generation born in the mainland United States, he did not speak English until he went to kindergarten. His father worked on a Mack truck assembly line for 30 years.After college, Mr. Rodriguez stayed at first near his hometown. As he left for work on the first day of a new teaching job, he discovered that his house had been pelted with eggs, his car had been scratched and someone had written on his front steps, “Go home.”“My wife joined me at the door, and she said, ‘What do we do?’ ” Mr. Rodriguez recalled. “I said, ‘Now we’re really not moving.’ ” They remained in that house for five years, until they could afford a bigger one, he said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Rodriguez, who started preaching at 16, has the charisma of a stage magician and the backstage work ethic to match. He is perpetually in motion, flying around the world to preaching engagements. On a recent Sunday, he bounded across the stage of his church, the New Season Christian Worship Center, acting out multiple roles in the biblical story of Joshua.When Mr. Trump invited him to pray at the inauguration, Mr. Rodriguez said, he asked his congregation to raise their hands if anyone objected. If even one hand went up, he said, he would not go. None did.Even so, Hiram Reyes, a Dreamer in the congregation, said she was confused and angry when she saw her pastor at the White House.“Seeing someone representing us, next to someone who wants to destroy us,” said Ms. Reyes, a college-bound high school senior. “At the same time, it is reassuring knowing we do have a voice there. It gives us hope that at some point there will be a resolution.”Leaders of some other large Hispanic evangelical groups have mostly kept their distance from Mr. Trump, and Mr. Rodriguez said he was initially no fan either. During the Republican primary campaign he served first on Jeb Bush’s advisory team, then Marco Rubio’s, then Ted Cruz’s, and only came around to Mr. Trump when he won the nomination.Like many evangelicals, Mr. Rodriguez has been thrilled at some of Mr. Trump’s moves and statements concerning abortion, religious liberty and relocating the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.But he said his last trip to the White House was discouraging. John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, and Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, tried to persuade Mr. Rodriguez and a small group of Hispanic business and civic leaders to support their proposal to link help for Dreamers with support for a border wall and limits on allowing immigration to reunite families. Mr. Rodriguez agreed to support the deal, but said he did not like it much.Many immigration advocates said afterward that the White House had sabotaged the chances for a deal by holding the Dreamers hostage to Mr. Trump’s anti-immigration agenda. But Mr. Rodriguez refused to blame Mr. Trump.He said Republicans and Democrats, the White House and Congress were all at fault. He and his network are now planning a publicity campaign closer to the midterm elections to press members of Congress to act.Meanwhile, the Dreamers in his church are still living in fear.“Families keep on getting destroyed and separated, and there’s still no clarity, no solution,” Ms. Herrera, who works with autistic children, said in a telephone interview last week. “It’s very frustrating.”She blames “politics” in general — both political parties and Mr. Trump alike — for the impasse. “If he wanted to, he could make something happen,” she said. “It seems like they’re just playing a political game with the Dreamers.“I still believe that Pastor Sam is there for a reason, and has the type of influence he has for a reason,” Ms. Herrera added. “No matter what, you can’t lose faith. That’s what holds us together.”See More »Go to Home Page »HOUSTON — Before Thanksgiving, Busy Philipps, an actress with a large following among millennial moms, urged her fans to bring up a “really important topic” at the holiday dinner table.IBM is parading young immigrant employees through the halls of Congress. Television commercials are running in key districts. On Tuesday, evangelical Christians supporting the immigrants were arrested after demonstrating outside the office of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan.With their future now in jeopardy, a wide range of well-organized, well-financed supporters are lining up behind the Dreamers, including celebrities, philanthropists, religious groups and pillars of corporate America.Republicans control Congress but cannot keep the government running without Democrats, and several Democrats have said they will not vote for a spending bill unless it also resolves the plight of the immigrants. “We will not leave here without a DACA fix,” Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, said on Thursday.The multipronged campaign to help the young immigrants underscores how much the country has come to identify with them and how extensively they have been integrated into the economy. Many Republicans have joined Democrats in supporting DACA beneficiaries, and polls show overwhelming support for them. It is no longer politically risky to get behind them.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a recent conference call with religious leaders who supported helping the immigrants, one Republican, Representative Peter Roskam of Illinois, told them he would support legislation to shield the immigrants from deportation only if it came with enhanced border measures. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Roskam’s office said his view had not changed.The mobilization began in September, as soon as the Trump administration announced the repeal of the deferred-action program.The companies, which have a substantial lobbying presence in Washington, began leveraging relationships with lawmakers from districts where they have major operations. In mid-November, a lobbying blitz on Capitol Hill involved officials from 40 large companies introducing DACA recipients who work for their firms to lawmakers.“We held dozens of meetings with members of Congress from both parties and we heard consistently that they want a solution,” said Christopher Padilla, vice president of government affairs for IBM, which employs more than 30 DACA recipients. He added that the company wanted lawmakers to “give Dreamers the clarity and stability they deserve.”Among those photographed was a DACA recipient named Laura Cruz, a public-health major who clutched the cap and gown she had just picked up to wear at her December graduation. Given the uncertainty over her future, she said, “It’s hard for me to decide what to do next.”Davis Darnsman, a junior studying corporate communications, said his best friend had received DACA protection. He also said he would be amenable to bolstered border security. “There has to some compromise that can be made to benefit everybody,” he said.On Tuesday, the dozens of evangelical Christians who gathered outside Mr. Ryan’s office bore boxes stuffed with cards on which young immigrants in their communities had written messages relating their “dreams.” Several protesters poured the cards onto the floor as if they were an offering, then knelt, prayed and sang “Silent Night” before being arrested on civil disobedience charges.Cheryl Miller, a lifelong Republican who had traveled from rural Texas to the demonstration, said, “This is the first time I have done anything like this.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump’s chief of staff privately told a group of Democratic lawmakers on Wednesday that Mr. Trump had not been “fully informed” when promising voters a wall along the Mexican border last year, and said that he had persuaded the president it was not necessary. He also expressed optimism that a bipartisan immigration deal could eventually be reached.But in telling lawmakers that Mr. Trump had essentially erred from the start in promoting a wall and by claiming credit for dissuading him, Mr. Kelly appeared to be voicing a sentiment some in the West Wing have heard him express privately — that it is his job to tutor a sometimes ill-informed president who has never served in public office before.At the same time, it suggested that Mr. Kelly, who served as secretary of homeland security before coming to the White House and has hard-line views on immigration that mirror the president’s restrictionist approach, was positioning himself now as a moderating influence.“There’s no doubt in my mind there’s going to be a deal, so long as men and women on both sides are willing to talk,” Mr. Kelly said in an interview with Fox News.Mr. Kelly told lawmakers that “he was the one who tempered” Mr. Trump “on the issue of the wall, on the issue of DACA,” said Representative Raúl Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, who attended the session.Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, who was also at the meeting, quoted Mr. Kelly as having told the group that, “a 50-foot wall from sea to shining sea isn’t what we’re going to build.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Gutiérrez told reporters that at the meeting, Mr. Kelly said that during the presidential campaign, “there were statements made about the wall that were not informed statements.”Mr. Trump often cited his promise to build a “big, beautiful wall” to energize his campaign rallies.Marc T. Short, the White House director of legislative affairs, denied the Democrats’ characterization of Mr. Kelly’s comments about the president’s familiarity with immigration issues, telling CNN in an interview: “I don’t recall General Kelly saying the president was uninformed.”But he did not dispute the notion that the president has changed his view of what is needed to secure the border, based in part on information from Customs and Border Protection, the government agency charged with immigration enforcement.The wall has been a prominent issue in the negotiations over DACA, with Mr. Trump insisting that funding to build it be part of any such bill, along with measures to limit the extended family members immigrants can sponsor for entry into the United States and an end to the diversity visa lottery.“He used the word ‘evolved,’” Mr. Grijalva said, adding that Mr. Kelly said Mr. Trump has “evolved, in the general context of the wall and DACA, and he said you make campaign promises; that’s different from governing.”Two House Democratic aides who attended the meeting confirmed the accounts given by Mr. Grijalva and Mr. Gutiérrez.Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard, Democrat of California, said she sought a clarification from Mr. Kelly about what would constitute the border wall that Mr. Trump is seeking, since “so many people have different ideas about what the wall actually is.”Mr. Kelly said that since taking office, Mr. Trump “realizes what the realities are, and that they are no longer considering the wall to be what was described in the campaign,” Ms. Roybal-Allard said.“It wasn’t until he got to the White House that he was better informed in terms of what were the possibilities in terms of barriers,” Ms. Roybal-Allard added, recalling what Mr. Kelly said about Mr. Trump.Emily Baumgaertner contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Supported byLetterTo the Editor:Among today’s Dreamers it is possible to identify future architects, engineers, social workers, lawyers, doctors, scientists, artists, business executives and so forth. Such a precious educational investment in these talented youths by thousands of teachers should not be underestimated.Tragically, the Dreamers’ deportation clock is still ticking. If thousands of educated Dreamers get deported as a result of politics in Washington, it will be at our own peril, particularly in the coming decades of global competition.Today’s Dreamers grew up American, socially, culturally and educationally! Legalization, and a clear path to United States citizenship, should be granted immediately to this vibrant sector of our future leadership.ALEJANDRO LUGO, LAS CRUCES, N.M.The writer is a professor in the School of Transborder Studies, Arizona State University.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSJuan Villacis wakes each morning, looks at the bedroom ceiling and is hit by the sobering realization that he is far from home. Until November, he and his family had carved out a modest life in the Woodhaven neighborhood of Queens, where he and his wife worked as physical therapists while their twin daughters completed college. They are a close-knit family who paid taxes, kept up their house and stayed out of trouble.And now they are being deported.“It breaks my heart that families all over the country are dealing with this,” said Jillian Hopman, the family’s lawyer. “As we’ve seen over the past week with what we thought was going to be reform with DACA, I don’t think Trump knows what he wants. It’s only a political thing to appease his base. But I find it just disgusting and unnecessarily cruel that they’re not looking at any of these people as individuals.”Even though he and his wife had checked in regularly with immigration authorities over the years, Mr. Villacis had braced for the worst. The president’s nationalist remarks — and his base’s enthusiastic approval of his tough talk — led him to put his affairs in order. He installed a stair lift for his mother, who lives on the second floor and gets around with difficulty, and showed his daughters how to control the heat, take care of the mortgage and look after the house.His daughters, Liany and Maria, now have to care for their grandmother and help her with medical appointments and treatment. And while his mother — an American citizen — had applied for him to be granted residency, her request won’t be considered for almost five years.His wife hasn’t really accepted what has happened and still holds out hope that their appeal will be heard soon or that some politician will intercede. Her friends have suggested she not return to Colombia, but instead stay put. Ms. Guerrero, however, refuses to consider becoming a fugitive.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Why would I do that?” she asked. “If my life becomes unsettled, Juan would be even more desperate knowing what I’m doing. My children would never be at peace. Above all, we have done everything the right way. Why would I do something against the law now?”Ms. Guerrero had hoped that she and her husband could have had more time to prepare their daughters and help them begin their careers. Now she is worried that Liany, who works in finance, and Maria, who just graduated with a marketing degree and is job-hunting, will have to put their lives on hold to assume more responsibilities. That is, if they don’t end up having to leave, too.“I don’t want to close this chapter of my life here in this manner,” Ms. Guerrero said. “Being forced to leave is so sad and painful. The pain, the uncertainty and the depression of all that is happening is so big. There are days I think I can’t take it anymore.”She has been particularly upset about how her husband, who was prevented from saying goodbye to the family, was shackled and detained at the Bergen County Jail in New Jersey before being deported with gang members, drug dealers and other criminals. At night, their screams kept him awake. During the day, he stayed indoors and even refused to go out into the yard for some fresh air.“I didn’t want to see the sky and know I had to return and be shut in,” he explained.He is resigned that he and his wife will have to start their careers in physical therapy over in Colombia or Ecuador. But as painful as the past few months have been, Mr. Villacis has found comfort in how he handled it.“After all this, you learn to be a better human being,” he said. “You understand people better. You see immigrants and working people. What has happened to me has helped to make me humbler, simpler and to understand people.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byIt’s already tiring to watch the jockeying among the partisans over who is to be blamed for the government shutdown and who will likely face political consequences because of it.Donald Trump proved himself both woefully inept at making tough deals and also demonstrated that his yearlong strategy of trying to govern to the exclusion of Democrats and playing to a narrow base is fatally flawed.Trump is an unrepentant, unremitting liar. That makes deal-making impossible. His word is meaningless and his policy principles are murky. He is mercurial and inconsistent. This may well have worked in business, to keep people off kilter, but it won’t work in politics.Voters often say that they want a business leader as a political leader, but the skills and interests aren’t always transferable. Operating with a profit interest is often at odds with operating in the public interest.Trump’s major successes — or, as I would call them, areas of injury — during his first year in office have largely been beneficial to big business, moving us ever closer to true plutocracy.He signed the plundering tax bill that disproportionately favored businesses and the wealthy, and he and his administration continue to chip away at regulations.The strange thing about regulations is that most people don’t track them. They quietly restrain the rapaciousness of corporate greed, keeping people and planet safe from profit-at-any-cost recklessness. We don’t truly appreciate regulations until we need them and they aren’t there.The argument over regulation has always been one of safety versus profit. Trump has chosen to support profit over safety. He tweeted Saturday: “The Trump Administration has terminated more UNNECESSARY Regulation, in just twelve months, than any other Administration has terminated during their full term in office, no matter what the length. The good news is, THERE IS MUCH MORE TO COME!”As with everything that comes from this White House, that is not entirely true.Bloomberg continued:“Rather, the claim of victory in the war on regulation is instead based almost entirely on stopping proposed rules that haven’t yet made their way through the machinery of government. The White House says it has killed or stalled 860 pending regulations. It’s done this by withdrawing 469, listing another 109 as inactive and relegating 282 to ‘long term.’”But Trump doesn’t care for the details or the truth. He only wants to be able to claim everything as the biggest, best, greatest … ever.This showman’s sensibility, with a disdain for detail, is precisely the sort of thing that makes having him as a “deal maker” in government problematic.He just doesn’t care much about the public good. He cares about maintaining a core of support, inflaming racist and nativist passions and about the appearance of winning. In short, it’s all about him.So, on this government shutdown, morally, Democrats hold the higher ground. But politics is seen through different lenses depending on where you sit.Trump’s team is now casting the shutdown as Democratic obstruction, which for some will resonate. It will be harder for Democrats to make their moral case the longer the shutdown stays in effect.But the poll also found: “Still, 56 percent overall say approving a budget agreement to avoid a shutdown is more important than continuing the DACA program, while just 34 percent choose DACA over a shutdown. Democrats break narrowly in favor of DACA — 49 percent say it’s more important vs. 42 percent who say avoiding a shutdown is the priority — while majorities of both Republicans (75 percent) and independents (57 percent) say avoiding a shutdown is more important.”Put another way, Americans wants to support the Dreamers, but only up to a point, that point being disruption. Republicans know this. They can feel the softness of many Americans’ moral convictions on the subject of Dreamers, and with this shutdown, they are going to poke that sore spot.Trump and his anti-immigrant, cultural-anxiety agitators are already pitching the shutdown as a choice Democrats made to put the brown children of illegal immigrants over the interests of beleaguered soldiers.Trump isn’t a great deal maker, but he is an extraordinary norms-breaker. When this is all settled, however that is done, Trump will find a way to make himself look like a winner, even if he has to lie.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byPresident Trump’s immigration proposal has put Democrats in a bind; they know it and he knows it.In 2014, immigrant women accounted for about 901,000 U.S. births, which marked a threefold increase from 1970 when immigrant women accounted for about 274,000 births. Meanwhile, the annual number of births to U.S.-born women dropped by 11 percent during that same time period, from 3.46 million in 1970 to 3.10 million in 2014.Trump’s proposal more than meets Democratic demands on DACA. But in return Trump wants Democrats to swallow three proposals of varying unpalatability.First, the creation of a $25 billion fund for construction of a southern border wall to prevent illegal entry to the United States, primarily by undocumented Hispanics.The greatest unknown is how immigration reform will influence the voting behavior of the white working class.Teixeira argues thatThe view that Democrats can get along without working-class white voters is simply wrong. It reflects wishful thinking and a rigid set of political priors — namely, that Democrats’ political problems always stem from insufficient motivation of base voters — more than a cold, hard look at what the electoral and demographic data say.The conflicts the Trump proposals present for Democrats are most painful to Hispanic and black elected officials.The White House is using Dreamers to mask their underlying xenophobic, isolationist, and un-American policies, which will harm millions of immigrants living in the United States and millions of others who want to legally immigrate and contribute to our country.Despite these complaints, there are many political analysts sympathetic to the Democratic plight who contend that Trump has boxed Democrats in.Many Democrats fear that extensive investments and political posturing made on behalf of immigrants will be regarded as of little value to a large swath of independent voters whose support Democrats need to increase their representation in Congress.In a reference to the demonstrated electoral liabilities of so-called “identity politics,” Gold argued that concerned Democrats worry thatby emphasizing particularistic rather than practical issues with a broad impact, they will once again lose the politically advantageous position that appears to be taking shape for them in 2018 and 2020.The Democrats don’t have a lot of good options other than to support it enough that it can pass with unified Republican support.McCarty explained further:Blocking it would allow the Trump Administration to suggest that the Democrats were willing to trade Dreamers for “lottery” and “chain” migration, as well as position them as soft on border security.An advantage in accepting the Trump proposal, McCarty continued,is that border security appropriations and visa programs can be fixed if the Democrats regain control. The effects of Dreamer deportations and/or sending them back into the shadows is far less reversible.Trump and Stephen Miller, a senior adviser to the president, have clearly made this calculation and decided that they win either way. Take, for example, the following tweet from the president’s account on Jan. 27:I have offered DACA a wonderful deal, including a doubling in the number of recipients & a twelve year pathway to citizenship, for two reasons: (1) Because the Republicans want to fix a long time terrible problem. (2) To show that Democrats do not want to solve DACA, only use it!Borosage went on:What should Democrats do? I’d take the deal, after pushing for concessions on family unification and lottery system, and pushing against full commitment of $25 billion as an outrage.If the Democrats compromise on a few of the non-DACA items and the (Congressional) Republican position is no DACA relief, then the Republican position becomes untenable and looks as though are caving to their extreme nativist faction. And if the Democrats make their position a clean bill on DACA and no compromise on the other items, it hands the Republicans a perfect wedge item going into the 2018 election, possibly keeping them in control of both houses.In fact, I found an unexpectedly high percentage of the experts I contacted — most of whom are sympathetic to the plight of immigrants — in general agreement that Democrats would be wise to come to some kind of an agreement with Trump.in today’s political climate, it’s very hard to imagine a deal that will placate both sides for long, as both parties seem to define winning in zero-sum terms.So far at least, arguments in favor of cutting a deal are not selling with the Democratic leadership — although the leaders’ position may be more of a bargaining tactic than a principled stance.While @realDonaldTrump finally acknowledged that the Dreamers should be allowed to stay here and become citizens, he uses them as a tool to tear apart our legal immigration system and adopt the wish list that anti-immigration hard-liners have advocated for years.The president represents himself as generous towards Dreamers, but he is holding them hostage with the most extreme anti-immigrant agenda in generations. We heard more insulting words of ignorance and prejudice towards patriotic immigrant families last night.the so-called compromise between DACA and border security is extremely disproportional — weighted heavily toward the latter which is characterized by simple bumper sticker messages about family migration, border security and the visa lottery that is aimed at appealing to the extreme anti-immigrant wings of Trump’s Republican base.Frey wrote in his email that he couldnot imagine Democratic senators or congressmen agreeing to anything close to this plan — in light of their base which not only includes Hispanics, Asian-Americans and other minorities — but also rising support in recent state and local elections they have received from suburban college graduate women and millennials.Democrats cannot make the politics of fear go away simply by courting the young-adult and minority voting blocs. While it is true that the supersize turnout and support of those groups helped elect President Obama twice, the white portion of the electorate, which votes strongly Republican, underperformed in support of John McCain in 2008, and white turnout was down in 2012.There is, Frey continued, “a sharp lag in diversity between the overall population and the portion that turns out on Election Day.” It is “the older electorate — those most greatly fearing change,” he wrote,that will be gaining as baby boomers continue to age. By my calculation, the number of (mostly white) eligible voters over age 45 will be 26 percent larger in 2024 than those under age 45. This disparity will be further widened by the higher turnout of older white voters, who may not determine future elections but will continue to have a strong voice.When I asked him if there was a disparity between his recent comment to me and the Post op-ed, Frey wrote back:I stand by the fact that the politics of fear (to older non-college whites) can work to some extent. But I also think white women, especially college graduate white women, can help to mute the impact on the immigration issue because of their disdain for Trump. If Dems are looking at 2018, it’s not just the immigration issue that is important to those women but Trump’s stance on women’s issues in general — critical of planned parenthood, abortion, his support of Roy Moore in Alabama, his disdain for political correctness and his overall boorishness may counter whatever gains he may get, on immigration, from older white non-college men and women (and even the latter support may be more tenuous). Another group is millennials, now strongly anti-Trump, who could be motivated to turn out in greater numbers.In short, the base that will respond to Trump playing the “immigration card” may be dwindling in light of his other positions and demeanor since in office — including his handling of the Russian investigation. I think the Democrats are counting on that.In response to the question, “Which comes closer to your view, ‘immigrants today strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents,’ or ‘immigrants today burden the country by taking jobs, housing and health care’?” there was almost no difference in the responses of Democrats and Republicans in 2006.In 2016, 78 percent of Democrats had a positive view of immigration compared with 35 percent of Republicans.It is tempting to read polls as a reflection of “what the public wants” on some issue. Politicians and activists routinely portray poll results in this way when they seem to lend popular legitimacy to their preferred programs. The reality is more complicated. The great majority of Americans do not hold clear, stable, well-defined positions on almost any of these issues.Levy wrote that his “sense” is that a final dealcould include funding for the wall, which was in fact not an unpopular policy idea until it became a signature issue in Trump’s campaign, and possibly also curtailing the diversity visa lottery.He cautioned, however, that it isunlikely that the Democrats would accede to anything approaching the kinds of sweeping cuts to family-based admissions that the administration has proposed.Even if much of the public has ambivalent feelings about immigration, that doesn’t mean the issue will have no more than a moderate impact on the election.This framework may anger a critical component of Trump’s base if they come to view it as “amnesty.” This in turn could impact turnout in the 2018 midterms.Crucially, Ekins noted that immigration attitudes wereFor Republicans, it would be difficult to defend televised deportations of hard-working, law-abiding young men and women to countries of which they have little or no memory.There is more political capital in an issue left festering than in a problem solved.As both parties struggle with the logistical and moral quagmire that the immigration issue represents, they face problems that they need to solve and not to solve at the same time.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that he is open to a path to citizenship after 10 to 12 years for hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, days after rejecting a bipartisan plan with that as its centerpiece.Mr. Trump once again seemed to undercut his administration’s message, telling reporters at the White House that he would allow the young immigrants, known as Dreamers, to “morph into” citizens over a period of time.The reporters had gathered for a briefing from a senior official detailing the administration’s plans to stick to a restrictive immigration agenda when the president dropped in unprompted, shortly before departing for Davos, Switzerland, pre-empting the official.“Over a period of 10 to 12 years,” Mr. Trump said, “somebody does a great job, they work hard — that gives incentive to do a great job. Whatever they’re doing, if they do a great job, I think it’s a nice thing to have the incentive of, after a period of years, being able to become a citizen.”In September, Mr. Trump ended an Obama-era program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, saying it was an illegal assertion of executive authority by his predecessor. But even as Mr. Trump’s actions threatened nearly 700,000 young immigrants with deportation when the program expires March 5, he has urged Congress to find a permanent solution that could allow them to live and work in the country legally.In addition to suggesting a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers, Mr. Trump said that he would request $25 billion to build a wall along the United States border with Mexico, though he said he would build it “way under budget.” He also said that his plan would include a request for $5 billion for additional security measures along the border.The fate of the Dreamers is at the center of a furious stalemate in Congress, where Republicans and Democrats are struggling to find a compromise. Mr. Trump’s positions have been difficult to discern, vacillating between his expressions of sympathy for the DACA recipients and his hard-line demands for a crackdown on illegal immigrants.Mr. Trump campaigned for the presidency with nativist rhetoric that assailed the threat from outsiders, especially Mexicans and Muslims. As president, he quickly tried to impose a travel ban on predominantly Muslim countries and gave immigration agents more authority to round up undocumented immigrants.Mr. Trump’s remarks drew support from Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who has in recent weeks been at the forefront of efforts to reach an immigration deal. Mr. Graham had been one of the architects of the bipartisan plan rejected by Mr. Trump.“President Trump’s support for a pathway to citizenship will help us get strong border security measures as we work to modernize a broken immigration system,” Mr. Graham said in a statement. “Finally, with this statement we are on track to solving the immigration problem, which is the political key to rebuilding our military.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the Trump administration struggled in recent days to produce an on-message stance on immigration, Mr. Trump has kept largely out of sight, as his chief of staff, John F. Kelly, coordinated with Republican leaders while they worked with Democrats to reopen the government after a three-day shutdown.Mr. Kelly and Stephen Miller, Mr. Trump’s senior policy adviser, are immigration hard-liners and are major proponents of the kind of “legislative framework” that earlier in the day Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said the administration would release on Monday that would be intended to emphasize conservative demands for tougher immigration enforcement and border protection. Neither Mr. Kelly nor Mr. Miller accompanied the president to the World Economic Forum in Davos.Within hours, Mr. Trump’s off-the-cuff comments to reporters seemed, again, to suggest flexibility. But his remarks sent the White House staff scrambling in what one official called a “fire drill.” After delaying the briefing for nearly an hour, Mr. Trump’s aides decided to postpone it until Thursday as they tried to reconcile their plans with the president’s words.Mr. Trump, once again, said he will insist on an end to the diversity lottery system, which encourages immigration from a variety of countries. Mr. Trump referred to the program as a “broken system” that brings the wrong kind of people into the United States. He said that he wanted to negotiate an end to so-called chain migration, but said he would work to allow nuclear families to stay together.Despite the president’s pledge to the Dreamers, his administration cracked down earlier Wednesday on so-called sanctuary cities. The Justice Department asked the 23 jurisdictions across the country to furnish documents proving that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities. The department’s move caused several Democratic mayors from some of the country’s largest cities to boycott a White House meeting with Mr. Trump.“Protecting criminal aliens from federal immigration authorities defies common sense and undermines the rule of law,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement. “Enough is enough.”The protest against the letter and Mr. Sessions’s comments added a local dimension to the roiling national debate. Mitch Landrieu, the mayor of New Orleans and the president of the United States Conference of Mayors, said on Wednesday at a news conference in Washington that he saw the Justice Department’s move as an “attack,” and that he could not “in good conscience” attend the White House meeting.Sanctuary cities, which generally refuse to hold people on immigration agents’ behalf without a warrant from a judge, have pushed back hard over the past year on the administration’s attempts to force them to abandon their stance by cutting off federal funding to them. Some, like Chicago, have filed lawsuits against the Justice Department.“President Trump shouldn’t invite us to the White House for a meeting on infrastructure and three hours before issue the equivalent of what are arrest warrants for standing up for what we believe in and, by the way, what America believes in,” Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago said.Armed with the news that several Democratic mayors had declined an invitation to the White House, Mr. Trump again returned to a partisan stance on immigration.“The mayors who choose to boycott this event have put the needs of criminal, illegal immigrants over law-abiding America,” Mr. Trump said at the event, held hours before he dropped in on reporters.As the president ended his conversation with reporters and prepared to leave for Switzerland, he jokingly suggested that he would like a deal on immigration in place by the time he returns.Mr. Trump is scheduled to arrive back at the White House on Friday night.Katie Benner and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):4:20 p.m.Trump administration officials are working on a new package of legislation aimed at closing what they describe as immigration "loopholes."Among the measures they want Congress to address: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children traveling alone from countries that don't border the U.S.They also want Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to caretakers while their cases are making their way through immigration court.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House wish list on immigration that was released in October.It's unclear, however, whether there is any appetite in Congress for such changes, especially now that the president has said he is no longer interested in protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.___2:05 p.m.Political groups backed by the conservative Koch brothers are criticizing President Donald Trump for declaring that an effort to protect young immigrants from deportation is dead.Freedom Partners is backed by the wealthy Charles and David Koch. Its executive vice president is James Davis, and he says it would be "irresponsible and represent a grave injustice" not to compromise with Democrats on permanently protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for border security.Trump has rejected such a deal.Officials with Americans for Prosperity and The LIBRE Initiative released similar statements. LIBRE Initiative President Daniel Garza says Dreamers "have contributed to our economy and our communities."The Kochs didn't support Trump's 2016 presidential bid. They've previously criticized his immigration stance but have backed many of his other policies.__12:55 p.m.President Donald Trump is attacking his own Justice Department and the FBI on Twitter, accusing them of withholding information and "slow walking" the production of documents to Republicans in Congress.Trump is also appearing to question the integrity of the Justice Department in his Tweet by putting quotation marks around the word "Justice" in referring to the department. He says the conduct of the agencies overseen by his appointees is an "embarrassment to our country."The criticism comes about a week after Trump-appointed FBI Director Christopher Wray assigned 54 FBI staff to work from 8 a.m. to midnight collecting and reviewing documents requested by various congressional investigations.The president could expedite the release of the documents on his own by declassifying the information in full.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.__11:20 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the state of the nation's economy at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.Trump spoke briefly to hundreds of guests on the South Lawn, pointing to a "special year" for the country and progress on the economy.The president and first lady Melania Trump, joined by 12-year-old son Barron, then walked over to the station where kids are rolling dyed, hard-boiled eggs across the lawn.Trump addressed reporters briefly, reiterating that Democrats have "really let" down young immigrants seeking a deal on protections from deportation.Trump has been trying to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Although he says he has been open to a law extending it, he and Congress have been unable to come to terms.__7:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is calling for new border wall and immigration legislation, tweeting that moving to the "nuclear option" in the Senate is only way to muscle such a measure through Congress. But that would require changing Senate rules, something for which Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has shown no enthusiasm.In early morning tweets Monday, Trump says "Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People." He added, "Act now, Congress, our country is being stolen."Trump also tweeted that the U.S. must build a border wall, but argued that "Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime!" He also said that a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants is "dead because the Democrats didn't care or act."The $1.3 trillion funding package Congress passed last month included $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.__12:48 a.m.President Donald Trump has declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted Sunday one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump won't let up on Amazon. He's been assailing the online retailer for days, zeroing in on a "scam" contract with the U.S. Postal Service that's actually been judged profitable for the post office.Trump's latest flurry of tweets also slammed Mexico for lax border enforcement, using as his example a caravan of Central Americans who have been moving north after crossing Mexico's southern border. But the caravan's destination is a conference in central Mexico, not the U.S., though many from the group may split off and ask for asylum either in Mexico or the U.S.Trump's fired veterans affairs secretary, meantime, sidestepped the truth when he asserted on the weekend that his ethics problems at the agency were all about politics.Here's a look at statements Monday and from the weekend on these matters:AMAZONTRUMP: "Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field!" — tweet Monday.TRUMP: "If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates, Amazon's shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!" — tweet Saturday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.As well, people who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it, however.As for the post office, package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that's lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs — not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce, the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages, but that hasn't been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail, which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.While the Postal Service's losses can't be attributed to its package business, Trump's claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels. The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner, Jeff Bezos, owns The Washington Post, one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___MEXICOTRUMP: "Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large 'Caravans' of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws." — tweet Monday.TRUMP: "Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws!" — tweet Monday.TRUMP: "These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!" — tweet Sunday.THE FACTS: Trump is painting an overly ominous picture of the procession of some 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, who have been marching in a caravan along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexico state of Oaxaca. They are not marching en masse to the U.S. border to sneak in.These "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for at least the last five years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.The organized portions of the caravans usually don't proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz; migrants as individuals or in smaller groups often take buses or trucks from there to the border.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The current march is scheduled to wind up this month with a conference on migration issues in the central Mexican state of Puebla, east of Mexico City. That's some 650 miles by road (1,050 km) from the U.S.  Migrants who break away and reach the U.S. border often turn themselves in and request asylum.A Mexican government official said the caravans are tolerated because migrants have a right under Mexican law to request asylum in Mexico or to request a humanitarian visa to ask for asylum at the U.S. border. The understanding is that most participants in the caravan will do one or the other."Mexico is not allowing people to massively travel across the country without documents to reach the United States," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to be identified.Mexico routinely stops and deports undocumented Central Americans, sometimes in numbers that rival those of the United States. Deportations of foreigners dropped from 176,726 in 2015 to 76,433 in 2017, in part because fewer were believed to have come to Mexico, and more were requesting asylum in Mexico.As for migrants trying to "take advantage of DACA," the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program is closed to new entrants, so it's not clear how new migrants could benefit from it.The Obama-era program has provided temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought into the country as children. Trump ended the program. Absent a deal with Congress to renew it under law, the U.S. is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed.___VADAVID SHULKIN, defending himself against ethics accusations that contributed to his firing as VA secretary:  "I have been really clear. Everything that I did was done properly. It was preapproved by our ethics team. ...I think what the IG found was that a staff member had made essentially some problems in the way that they put the paperwork through. But the IG said I had no knowledge of that." — ABC interview Sunday.THE FACTS: Shulkin grossly misrepresents a report by the VA's inspector general that concluded he had violated ethics rules during an 11-day trip to Europe in July. The watchdog office determined Shulkin had improperly accepted free Wimbledon tennis tickets and failed to consult with VA ethics counsel beforehand. According to the February report, Shulkin belatedly asked VA counsel to expedite an ethics review of his acceptance of the tickets in September — two months after the trip — upon learning that journalists were making inquiries.The inspector general also concluded that Shulkin's chief of staff, Vivieca Wright Simpson, had lied to ethics officials by falsely claiming he was receiving an award in Europe to justify his wife's free travel at taxpayer expense — and doctoring emails to back up her claim. While the VA watchdog "found no evidence" that Shulkin was aware of his staffer's actions, Shulkin understates the extent of Simpson's deception to justify the free trip and his own actions abroad.SHULKIN, citing reasons Trump fired him:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family's character, I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity." — op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous, though politics contributed to his dismissal.White House support for Shulkin eroded after the blistering report in February by VA's internal watchdog, a nonpartisan office, about his travels in Europe.It is true, though, that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call, top communications aide John Ullyot and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin's removal after the release of the inspector general's report. The staff director declined to do so. Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general's report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4,000 to cover the costs of his wife's coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and points to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___Stevenson reported from Mexico City.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bdGo to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The White House on Friday presented Congress with an expansive list of hard-line immigration measures, including an $18 billion request to build a wall at the Mexican border, that President Trump is demanding in exchange for protecting young undocumented immigrants.The request, which totals $33 billion over a period of 10 years for border security measures including the wall, could jeopardize bipartisan talks aimed at getting an immigration deal. Among the items on Mr. Trump’s immigration wish-list: money to hire 10,000 additional immigration officers, tougher laws for those seeking asylum, and denial of federal grants to so-called “sanctuary cities.”The list, delivered to Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who has been leading the talks related to young immigrants without documentation, is identical to one Democrats declared a nonstarter when the White House issued it in October.“President Trump has said he may need a good government shutdown to get his wall,” a furious Mr. Durbin said in an emailed statement Friday afternoon. “With this demand, he seems to be heading in that direction.”The senator went on: “It’s outrageous that the White House would undercut months of bipartisan efforts by again trying to put its entire wish-list of hard-line anti-immigrant bills — plus an additional $18 billion in wall funding — on the backs of these young people.”An estimated 780,000 young people brought to this country illegally were shielded from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program, a program instituted by former President Barack Obama in 2012. But in September, Mr. Trump rescinded the program, known by its acronym, DACA, and gave Congress six months to come up with a replacement.Since then, immigration advocates say, 14,000 young people have lost their protected status because they could not renew two-year work permits issued under the program.Mr. Durbin and four other senators — including three Republicans — have been meeting nearly every day for the past two months to negotiate a deal that would protect the DACA recipients while beefing up border security, a key Republican demand. Senators said they were making progress but were stalled while awaiting a “punch list” from the White House that would set forth the president’s conditions.But part of the discussions were also expected to center on how to reach an accord with Democrats over protections for the undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, those known as Dreamers, as well as how to fund a major children’s health care program that is in danger of running out of funds. The president met with Republicans at the White House on Wednesday, but the meetings at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, are designed to come up with a clearer strategic approach.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.If they cannot reach a deal, the government could be forced into a partial shutdown almost a year to the day after Mr. Trump was sworn into office.How Mr. Trump works with Congress over these critical domestic issues will set a tone for his second year in office, and could shape the 2018 midterm election landscape. Republicans are deeply concerned that their majorities in the House and Senate may be in jeopardy.After the Friday meeting, the White House described the session as “productive” about matters of economic and national security.This week, the president expressed some hope that he could reach a deal with Democrats over the Obama-era immigration initiative, which allowed immigrants illegally brought to the United States as children to be shielded from deportation and to receive temporary, renewable work permits.Mr. Trump said then that, in addition to the wall, he wanted to limit family-based migration, which critics call “chain migration,” that allows relatives to sponsor family members to come to the United States. And he wants to do away with the diversity visa lottery, a State Department program that admits immigrants from countries that do not send many people to the United States.“We’d love to take care of DACA,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday, “but we’re only going to do it under these conditions.”In a Twitter message on Tuesday, the president accused Democrats of “doing nothing for DACA” and being interested only in politics.Democrats are doing nothing for DACA - just interested in politics. DACA activists and Hispanics will go hard against Dems, will start “falling in love” with Republicans and their President! We are about RESULTS.Whether that approach will bring along dubious Democrats is not certain, but it is clear that DACA is only one piece of a larger puzzle.While many Democrats support ending the visa program and stiffening border and interior enforcement, it is not clear whether they will back the measures that Republicans demand to limit what they call “chain migration,” allowing immigrants to sponsor family members once they gain legal status.“Nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to,” Ms. Pelosi said in an interview on Tuesday.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday morning signed into law a far-reaching budget deal that will boost spending by hundreds of billions of dollars and allow the federal government to reopen after a brief shutdown.In an early morning tweet, Mr. Trump said he had signed the bill, adding: “Our Military will now be stronger than ever before. We love and need our Military and gave them everything — and more.”Just signed Bill. Our Military will now be stronger than ever before. We love and need our Military and gave them everything — and more. First time this has happened in a long time. Also means JOBS, JOBS, JOBS!Mr. Trump’s signature came quickly after the House gave final approval early Friday to the deal, hours after a one-man blockade by Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky delayed the votes and forced the government to briefly close.House Democrats, after threatening to bring the bill down because it did nothing to protect young undocumented immigrants, gave Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin the votes he did not have in his own party and ensured passage. In the end, 73 House Democrats voted yes to more than offset the 67 Republicans who voted no.Just before the vote, Mr. Ryan voiced support for bringing a debate on immigration to the House floor — though he did not make a concrete promise, as Democratic leaders had wanted.With Mr. Trump’s signature, the government will reopen before many Americans were aware it had closed, with a deal that includes about $300 billion in additional funds over two years for military and nonmilitary programs, almost $90 billion in disaster relief in response to last year’s hurricanes and wildfires, and a higher statutory debt ceiling.It should pave the way for a measure of stability through September 2019 after months of lurching from fiscal crisis to fiscal crisis. Mr. Trump will get to boast of a huge increase in military spending, long promised, but his desire to more broadly reorder the government with deep cuts to programs like environmental protection, health research and foreign aid are dead for now — as is any semblance of fiscal austerity.Mr. Paul, a Republican, made that final point. Angered at the huge spending increases at the center of the accord, he delayed passage for hours with a demand to vote on an amendment that would have kept in place the strict caps on spending that the deal raises.It wasn’t long ago that fiscal responsibility was a mainstream Republican rallying cry. This was not lost on Senator Rand Paul who briefly shut the government down Friday morning over spending increases.“The reason I’m here tonight is to put people on the spot,” Mr. Paul said Thursday night. “I want people to feel uncomfortable. I want them to have to answer people at home who said, ‘How come you were against President Obama’s deficits and then how come you’re for Republican deficits?’”The shutdown came on the heels of a three-day closure brought about by Senate Democrats last month. As midnight approached, Mr. Paul did not relent, bemoaning from the Senate floor what he saw as out-of-control government spending and repeatedly rebuffing attempts by his fellow senators to move ahead with a vote.“I think the country’s worth a debate until 3 in the morning, frankly,” he said.Senate leaders were left helpless.“I think it’s irresponsible,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, lamenting what he described as “the act of a single senator who just is trying to make a point but doesn’t really care too much about who he inconveniences.”The Senate finally passed the measure, 71 to 28, shortly before 2 a.m. The House followed suit around 5:30 a.m., voting 240 to 186 for the bill.Before Mr. Paul waged his assault on the budget deal, trouble was already brewing in the House, where angry opposition from the Republicans’ most ardent conservative members, coupled with Democratic dissenters dismayed that the deal did nothing for young undocumented immigrants, created new tension as the clock ticked toward midnight.Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, told a closed-door meeting of House Democrats that she would oppose the deal, and said that Democrats would have leverage if they held together to demand a debate on immigration legislation. But she suggested that she would not stand in the way of lawmakers who wanted to vote their conscience.“Most of our members believe the budget agreement is a reasonable compromise to address America’s military strength and critical domestic priorities, like fighting the opioid crisis, boosting N.I.H., moving forward to resolve the pension crisis, caring for our veterans, making college more affordable and investing in child care for working families,” they wrote. “We are writing to again reiterate our request that you make a public statement regarding the scheduling of a vote on a DACA bill.”The run-up to the House vote, when passage was no foregone conclusion, highlighted the divisions within the Democratic caucus over how hard to push on the issue of immigration as Congress prepares to turn its focus to that politically volatile subject.Critically, it would also keep the government funded for another six weeks, giving lawmakers time to put together a long-term spending bill that would stretch through the rest of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. The previous temporary funding measure, which was passed to end the last shutdown, expired at midnight on Thursday.The deal had been expected to sail through the Senate, and the House had planned to vote on it later Thursday, until Mr. Paul took his stand.The White House Office of Management and Budget instructed federal agencies to prepare for a possible lapse in funding, a spokeswoman said Thursday night. Even with a technical lapse in government funding, the effect of the shutdown was limited because lawmakers gave final approval to the deal only hours after funding expired.As the midnight deadline approached, Senate leaders from both parties nudged Mr. Paul to stop holding up the vote. And his colleagues had little to do but wait.“It’s just further example of the dysfunction of this place,” said Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin. “It’s ridiculous, isn’t it?”Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, offered a succinct account of his evening: “Living the dream.”The two-year budget agreement reached by Senate leaders would contribute hundreds of billions of dollars to federal deficits.Among the Democratic ranks in the House, the objections were also strenuous, but for reasons very different from Mr. Paul’s.With the monthslong budget impasse appearing to be on the cusp of a resolution, lawmakers were girding for a fight over the fate of young immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children, known as Dreamers, as well as Mr. Trump’s plan to build a wall along the southern border with Mexico and other possible immigration policy changes.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Thursday, Ms. Pelosi herself displayed the conflicting pressures on Democrats. She simultaneously hailed the budget deal while proclaiming she would vote against it. In a letter to colleagues, she explained her opposition to the deal, but also nodded to its virtues and held back from pressuring other Democrats to vote against it.“I’m pleased with the product,” she told reporters. “I’m not pleased with the process.”In his own comments to reporters on Thursday, Mr. Ryan stressed his desire to address the fate of the young immigrants. But he did not offer the kind of open-ended commitment that might assuage Ms. Pelosi. Instead, he signaled that whatever bill the House considers would be one that Mr. Trump supports.“To anyone who doubts my intention to solve this problem and bring up a DACA and immigration reform bill, do not,” he said. “We will bring a solution to the floor, one that the president will sign.”Just before the vote on Friday morning, Mr. Ryan offered a further reassurance about his commitment to addressing DACA. Once the budget deal has been approved, he said, “we will focus on bringing that debate to this floor and finding a solution.”The fate of the Dreamers has been in question since Mr. Trump moved in September to end DACA. The president gave Congress six months to come up with a solution to resolve their fate.In recent months, Democrats have tried to make use of the leverage they have in fiscal negotiations, and the issue of immigration played a central role in last month’s shutdown. But Democrats have struggled to determine how hard they should push.This time, House Democrats were clearly split in their calculations about the best way to exert influence over immigration.Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, demanded that Ms. Pelosi use her muscle to “stop the Democrats from folding.”“Anyone who votes for the Senate budget deal is colluding with this president and this administration to deport Dreamers,” he said. “It is as simple as that.”Democrats also ran the risk of angering liberal activists who want to see them take a stand. Ben Wikler, the Washington director for MoveOn.org, said House Democrats would be making a strategic mistake by voting for the budget deal.“If you’re looking at a boulder and you have a choice between a lever or your bare hands, you should use the lever,” he said.But Democrats secured important victories in the budget pact, obtaining big increases in funding for domestic programs. Voting against those wins to take a stand on DACA — and possibly prolonging the shutdown — carried its own political risks.Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, noted that the budget deal “meets nearly every one of our priorities.”“If Democrats cannot support this kind of compromise, Congress will never function,” he said.The spotlight was on House Democrats in part because it had become apparent that Republican leaders would most likely lack the votes to push the budget deal through the House with only votes from their own party.“It was pretty much a smorgasbord of spending and policy that got added to this,” said Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Freedom Caucus. “Normally, people who eat at smorgasbords all the time are not the healthiest.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »On Thursday, the Senate voted to advance three different plans, but each failed.Proposal by:House RepublicansNo vote scheduledWhite House39-603 Democrats Yes, 14 Republicans NoSenator FlakeNo vote scheduledGang of SixNo vote scheduledMcCain-Coons52-474 Republicans Yes, 1 Democrat NoCommon Sense Coalition54-458 Republicans Yes, 3 Democrats NoProposal by:House RepublicansNo vote scheduledWhite House39-603 Ds Yes, 14 Rs NoSenator FlakeNo vote scheduledGang of SixNo vote scheduledMcCain-Coons52-474 Rs Yes, 1 D NoCommon Sense Coalition54-458 Rs Yes, 3 Ds NoHere is how different proposals address the Dreamers’ protections and five other critical issues:MORE GENEROUSMORE RESTRICTIVEMORE GENEROUSMORE RESTRICTIVEAbout 700,000 undocumented immigrants are currently shielded from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. An additional 1.1 million Dreamers were eligible for the program, but they did not apply. Mr. Trump announced plans to phase out the program by March 5.Path tocitizenship andparent benefitPath tocitizenshipNocitizenshipProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Path tocitizenship andparent benefitPath tocitizenshipNocitizenshipProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.In 2001, the Dream Act was introduced to provide a pathway to citizenship for these immigrants without additional immigration measures. Democrats still favor that approach, but it does not have enough support in the Republican-controlled Congress.NO MONEYMORE MONEYNo fundingfor a border wallNO MONEYMORE MONEYNo fundingfor a border wallSmall amountof moneyMoremoneyNomoneyProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Small amountof moneyMoremoneyNomoneyProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.LESS AGGRESSIVEMORE AGGRESSIVELimited fundingfor border securityLESS AGGRESSIVEMORE AGGRESSIVELimited fundingfor border securityLimitedfundingMorefundingMostaggressiveProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.LimitedfundingMorefundingMostaggressiveProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.STATUS QUOMORE ENFORCEMENTNo increasedenforcement of immigration lawsSTATUS QUOMORE ENFORCEMENTNo increasedenforcement of immigration lawsA separate vote to advance an amendment that would withhold federal grants from sanctuary cities failed in the Senate on Thursday. Four Democrats joined the Republicans in supporting it, but they did not reach the 60 votes needed to proceed.StatusquoHeavierenforcementMost aggressiveenforcementProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.MostaggressiveenforcementStatusquoHeavierenforcementProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.None of the other major plans include increased interior enforcement measures.STATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current visa systemSTATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current visa systemAnother one of the administration’s four priorities is ending “chain migration” — migration that allows legal immigrants to sponsor extended family members.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.STATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current diversity lottery visa systemSTATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current diversity lottery visa systemStatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Additional source: Migration Policy InstituteWASHINGTON — The Senate summarily blocked three measures on Thursday — including one backed by President Trump — to resolve the fate of the so-called Dreamers, leaving hundreds of thousands of them facing an uncertain future.As senators struck down measure after measure, a week that began with the promise of a rare open, free-ranging debate on the issue crashed headlong into the same divisions that have prevented Congress from fixing the nation’s immigration system for decades. The lack of consensus left in question whether any solution on the Dreamers can be reached.In a rebuke to the president, senators voted overwhelmingly, 39 to 60, against the White House-backed bill, which would have committed $25 billion for a wall along the border with Mexico, placed strict limits on legal immigration, ended the diversity visa lottery and offered 1.8 million Dreamers an eventual path to citizenship.Senators were 21 votes short of the 60 required to open debate, and the rejection of the president’s plan was bipartisan: Democrats refused its get-tough approach to legal immigration, while many conservative Republicans derided it as amnesty.Before the vote on Mr. Trump’s plan, senators rejected two bipartisan measures, including one written by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, and another drafted by a broad bipartisan group of centrists calling themselves the Common Sense Coalition.The votes were a stark reminder that Congress remains paralyzed by the immigration issue. Former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush both tried to overhaul the system, but were stymied by lawmakers frozen into inaction, in part because of powerful interests on both sides.What will happen now is unclear. An estimated 690,000 young undocumented immigrants have been protected from deportation by an Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. Another 1.1 million would be eligible.But Mr. Trump has rescinded the program, which offers temporary, renewable work permits. It expires March 5.The White House had worked vigorously to oppose the centrist bill, which the Department of Homeland Security labeled “a mass amnesty for over 10 million illegal aliens.” Senators of both parties said afterward that the Trump administration was instrumental in its defeat.“I don’t think the president helped very much, but the bottom line is the demagogues won again on the left and the right,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a key sponsor of the Senate measure.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Thursday’s votes came after Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, had set aside this week for senators to try to write a bill from scratch. Some senators said it was possible that lawmakers would attach an immigration bill to a catchall spending measure that must pass by March 23, when funding for the federal government expires.Senator John Cornyn, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said he did not envision Mr. McConnell allowing more time for lawmakers to debate the issue.“I don’t see it,” Mr. Cornyn said. “If we couldn’t get it together this week, I mean, we’ve got other things we have to do, which are pressing.”In the run-up to the debate, the bipartisan Common Sense Coalition measure, sponsored by seven Democrats, eight Republicans and one independent, was thought to have the best chance to clear the 60-vote threshold needed to pass the Senate.It would have appropriated $25 billion for border security, including construction of the president’s proposed wall, over a 10-year period — but not immediately, as Mr. Trump demands.It also included an eventual path to citizenship, over 10 to 12 years, for 1.8 million of the young undocumented immigrants, but would have precluded them from sponsoring their parents to become citizens. And it did not make changes to the diversity visa lottery system, which Mr. Trump wants to end.The White House attacked the plan as a grievous threat to national security and asserted that its sponsors were either complicit in wanting to undermine the United States’ immigration laws or misinformed about the drastic effects that the proposal would have.In a conference call with reporters before voting began, a senior White House official lashed out at Mr. Graham. Speaking only on the condition of anonymity despite repeated requests to be on the record, the official accused Mr. Graham of attacking homeland security officials and standing in the way of needed immigration changes.Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.“Senator Graham has been an obstacle for those reforms,” the official said.The official accused Mr. Graham of misleading other senators, including Democrats, about the damage the proposal would do, and said that Democrats should not let “Lindsey Graham dictate what Democrat senators ought to do.”On Capitol Hill, Mr. Graham took aim at Stephen Miller, a top White House aide and an immigration hard-liner. “As long as the president allows Steve Miller and others to run the show down there, we’re never going to get anywhere,” he said.After the legislative failures in the Senate, top White House officials said they plan to turn their attention to the House, where Republicans are working on a similar hard-line immigration plan that Mr. Trump has also embraced.Republicans may have more success approving the bill in the House, where they control the chamber and need only a simple majority to pass legislation. Mr. Trump praised the House legislation on Thursday, saying that it “enshrines” his immigration principles.Later Thursday night, the White House released a statement in support of advancing that legislation and denouncing the “Schumer Democrats,” referencing Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. The statement said that the Democrats “are not serious about DACA, they are not serious about immigration reform, and they are not serious about homeland security.”In the meantime, advocates estimate that more than 100 of the young immigrants lose their protected status each day. On March 5, they say, the number could rise to as many as 1,400 a day.“The president is not negotiating in good faith,” said Juan Escalante, 28, who was born in Venezuela and now works for America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group. “If you ask me, as an impacted party who essentially has everything to lose — my driver’s license and my work permit and my livelihood in this country — that is not any way to negotiate a deal.”White House officials are betting that House passage of a bill to protect the Dreamers will put enormous pressure on Democrats in the Senate. But immigrant rights activists and Democrats — and some Republicans in the Senate — have repeatedly vowed to oppose the House legislation, which they call outrageous and hurtful.That could leave the issue mired in stalemate as neither chamber can embrace legislation that the other chamber is willing to pass.“No one comes out a winner in this,” a dejected-sounding Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia and a chairman of the Common Sense Coalition, said after the Senate vote. “We tried everything.”See More »Go to Home Page »According to a 2017 online survey of more than 3,000 DACA recipients, the median age of entry into the United States was 6 years old, and the most common age was 3. The current age of DACA recipients ranges from 16 to 35 years old. The survey was conducted by Tom K. Wong, a professor at the University of California, San Diego, along with the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank, and immigration advocacy groups.According to an analysis by the Migration Policy Institute, immigrant workers who are eligible for DACA have higher-skilled, higher-paying jobs than undocumented immigrants who are ineligible. For example, DACA-eligible workers are more likely to work in sales and office jobs and less likely to work in construction, cleaning and maintenance jobs.Top occupations among undocumented immigrantsDACA-eligible workersDACA-ineligible workersFood preparation and serving16%16%Sales and related156Office and adminstrative support125Construction and extraction1020Production89Transportation and material moving88Building and grounds cleaning and maintenance613Management, business, science and arts42Personal care and service43Installation, maintenance and repair32Farming, fishing and forestry27There are several reasons for the differences. Unauthorized immigrants who are DACA-eligible are likely to have been in the United States for longer. They also have higher levels of education: Current enrollment in school or a high school diploma or equivalent is required.But according to Randy Capps, a research director at the Migration Policy Institute, participation in the DACA program also helps immigrants rise into more white-collar occupations, in part because those jobs may be more likely to validate a Social Security number than some lower-skilled jobs.An earlier version of this article omitted one of the educational qualifications for receiving DACA. ​In addition to a high school diploma or equivalent, ​current enrollment in school also meets the educational requirement.Ms. Pelosi claimed that “84 percent of Americans support a path to citizenship or permanent status for Dreamers; 88 percent of independents back the path of citizenship or permanent status; and 70 percent of Republicans back either citizenship or permanent status.”Her numbers are slightly off.Toward the beginning of her speech, Ms. Pelosi told a story of her ancestors’ migration and assimilation into United States society. She related the struggles of the current population of undocumented immigrants to the experience of her Italian grandparents, who heard the ethnic slur “wop” hurtled at them as shorthand for “being without papers.”A spokesman for Ms. Pelosi attributed the etymological lesson to family lore, but scholars say otherwise.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Undocumented immigrants cannot apply for a Social Security number; a United States passport; and, in most states, a driver’s license, but there are exceptions.See More »Go to Home Page »MANCHESTER, N.H. — John Kasich had been here before. This much he pointed out, twice, before anyone had a chance to wonder why he was back.“Wow!” he called out, stepping into the Red Arrow Diner on Tuesday for an unannounced stop, emitting the kind of surprise that only a politician can summon over three dozen people eating lunch. “It was just this crowded the last time.”Mr. Kasich sidled up beside the counter, squatting to greet a young customer, Sophia Bauer, whose name he seemed to hear as “Sylvia.”He led her by the hand toward a booth in the corner, where a television camera was waiting. “Isn’t that cool?” he said. The two peered into the camera together. The governor smiled. Then Sophia was dismissed. “All right, Sylvia,” he said. “Go back to your mom.” It was time to talk to CNN again.There would be nothing unusual about this — convening with past supporters and advisers from his 2016 campaign, making the rounds to talk up his record, congratulating the locals on their wisdom, their food, their can-do attitude — but for some inconvenient political context for Mr. Kasich.President Trump intends to run for re-election in 2020, and he has beaten Mr. Kasich before — here (by nearly 20 percentage points), elsewhere, and everywhere but the governor’s home state during the last round of primaries. In a party that, since then, has broadly pledged itself to Mr. Trump in sickness and in health, the president would almost certainly beat him again if the race were held today.But then, the race is not being held today, and Mr. Kasich is not exactly who he was in 2016, when he finished a semi-surprising second here. He is now one of the few prominent Republicans willing to knock Mr. Trump on health care, climate change, Russia and other issues in front of any television camera that will have him. In doing so he has won a new set of national admirers, though not always those who vote in Republican primaries.“I think I’m increasingly viewed now as not just a Republican but as something different, kind of a hybrid,” he said in a half-hour interview on Tuesday, shuttling between stops in an S.U.V. “I have people of all shapes, sizes, philosophies and party preferences that approach me. But what does that mean? I don’t know. I’m on television, so all the sudden they want to talk to me. Television moves everybody up, right?”Mr. Kasich’s case against Mr. Trump rests as much on tone as substance. The governor, a longtime supporter of free-trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, has been sharply critical of the president’s tilt toward protectionism on trade, saying it runs afoul of the Republican Party he knew. He has also lamented the president’s bid to dismantle DACA, the program aimed at protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation.On this and other issues, though, Mr. Kasich has sought to contrast himself with Mr. Trump most pointedly as a spokesman for national decency. Rarely was he more animated on Tuesday than during a discussion of the president’s Easter morning tweet declaring, “NO MORE DACA DEAL.” “On Easter,” the governor said on Tuesday, later adding, “Come on, leaders don’t do that.”Officially, Mr. Kasich says, another run for president is not on his immediate radar, but he is keeping his options open, maintaining the relationships required for any prospective campaign.Regardless of his eventual choice, Mr. Kasich has succeeded, at least, in installing himself permanently in the grand drama of the Trump era, drawing a pack of reporters to New Hampshire in an off-year on the pretext of a question-and-answer session at a college and ensuring that the news media will continue to track his doings once his term expires in January.“He enjoys being consequential,” said Tom Rath, a senior national adviser to Mr. Kasich’s 2016 campaign and a former attorney general of New Hampshire. “That alone would be enough to continue this effort, whatever you want to call this effort.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.If the governor ran again, said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s one-time campaign manager and a veteran of New Hampshire politics, “He’d be 0 for 50 John.”Jeanie Forrester, the chairwoman of the New Hampshire Republican Party, reported few rank-and-file voter concerns about their leader in Washington, even as Trump critics like Mr. Kasich and Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, who visited last month, make pilgrimages to the state. “Everybody is feeling pretty good,” she said.Still, Kasich allies see a way, noting the state’s wealth of independent voters and observing that far more New Hampshire residents sided against Mr. Trump, who won the primary with 35 percent of the vote, than with him. (Many more, of course, declined to support Mr. Kasich, who received 16 percent.)As the generally popular governor of a longtime bellwether state, Mr. Kasich has distinguished himself from some fellow Republicans on policy, expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and pushing for new gun restrictions after recent mass shootings.At least as central to his political brand, currently, is a contrarian streak that lurches beyond substance. He can speak at times like a sort of Midwestern oracle with a sweet tooth, by turns invoking Aristotle and Aquinas, raising the radio volume for “Stairway to Heaven” and holding forth on the majesty of dessert.A short while later, Mr. Kasich arrived for the stated purpose of the trip: a fireside forum at New England College in Henniker, where a bipartisan crowd of some 150 students and political veterans received him warmly. “He’s a positive voice,” said Gary Glines, 60, whose wife, a Democrat, had turned his attention to Mr. Kasich before the 2016 primary. “She said, ‘You need to listen to this guy. He sounds like you.’ ”He lamented the “namby-pamby” of his fellow politicians. He pledged to “do the best I can at doing the best I can.” He encouraged the crowd to give an ovation to Dana Bash of CNN.And when the moderator asked if Mr. Kasich believed New Hampshire should keep its place at the head of the political calendar, the governor pandered knowingly. The Iowa caucus, he said gently, should probably still come first, despite that state’s shortcomings. “I spent a year there one week,” Mr. Kasich said. “Just kidding, Iowa!”The joke did not kill, even in this room.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeWASHINGTON — President Trump on Thursday balked at an immigration deal that would include protections for people from Haiti and some nations in Africa, demanding to know at a White House meeting why he should accept immigrants from “shithole countries” rather than from places like Norway, according to people with direct knowledge of the conversation.Mr. Trump’s remarks, the latest example of his penchant for racially tinged remarks denigrating immigrants, left members of Congress from both parties attending the meeting in the Oval Office alarmed and mystified. He made them during a discussion of an emerging bipartisan deal to give legal status to immigrants illegally brought to the United States as children, those with knowledge of the conversation said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the meeting.When Mr. Trump heard that Haitians were among those who would benefit from the proposed deal, he asked whether they could be left out of the plan, asking, “Why do we want people from Haiti here?”In a written statement, Raj Shah, the White House deputy press secretary, did not deny the account of the meeting on Thursday or directly address Mr. Trump’s comments.“Certain Washington politicians choose to fight for foreign countries, but President Trump will always fight for the American people,” Mr. Shah said. “Like other nations that have merit-based immigration, President Trump is fighting for permanent solutions that make our country stronger by welcoming those who can contribute to our society, grow our economy and assimilate into our great nation.”But the president’s vulgar language on a delicate issue left the fate of the broader immigration debate in limbo and had the potential to torpedo the chances of achieving the deal being sought to protect about 800,000 undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. And they drew a backlash from Republican and Democratic lawmakers, many of whom called Mr. Trump’s utterances unacceptable at best and plainly racist at worst.Representative Mia Love, a Republican of Utah who is of Haitian descent, demanded an apology from the president, saying his comments were “unkind, divisive, elitist, and fly in the face of our nation’s values.”President Trump’s approval rating fell across many demographic groups over his first year in office, including among those seen as important to his base.“This behavior is unacceptable from the leader of our nation,” Ms. Love went on in an emotional statement that noted her heritage and that said her parents “never took a thing” from the government while achieving the American dream. “The president must apologize to both the American people and the nations he so wantonly maligned.”“As an American, I am ashamed of the president,” said Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois. “His comments are disappointing, unbelievable, but not surprising.” He added, we can now “say with 100 percent confidence that the president is a racist who does not share the values enshrined in our Constitution or Declaration of Independence.”The reactions were extraordinary bipartisan rebukes to a sitting president, but they only fanned what has been a long-simmering debate over Mr. Trump’s views and talk on race.As a candidate, Mr. Trump, who rose to political prominence questioning the validity of President Barack Obama’s birth certificate, branded Mexican immigrants rapists and criminals, called for a ban on Muslims entering the United States and was slow to disavow the support of the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.As the president, Mr. Trump has ordered a broad immigration crackdown while privately railing against immigrants from predominantly black countries and has repeatedly stoked racial divisions, denouncing “both sides” for violence after a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., and singling out black athletes for failing to stand for the national anthem before their games.Also present were Representative Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California and the majority leader; Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia; Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas; and Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee.None of the lawmakers would comment on Mr. Trump’s remarks.The plan outlined by Mr. Graham and Mr. Durbin, according to people familiar with it, would also include more than $2.5 billion for border security and a grant of protected status for the parents of the immigrants, known as Dreamers, who would be barred from sponsoring their parents for citizenship.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump grew angry as the group detailed another aspect of the deal — a move to end the diversity visa lottery program and use some of the 50,000 visas that are annually distributed as part of the program to protect vulnerable populations who have been living in the United States under what is known as Temporary Protected Status. That was when Mr. Durbin mentioned Haiti, prompting the president’s criticism.When the discussion turned to African nations, those with knowledge of the conversation added, Mr. Trump asked why he would want “all these people from shithole countries,” adding that the United States should admit more people from places like Norway.Mr. Trump has long argued that the United States should base legal immigration on merit and skills rather than family ties, seeking new entrants who are highly educated, capable of assimilating and unlikely to use government programs for the poor. Some people familiar with his comments argued privately on Thursday night that the president had only tried to press that point, using salty language.But it was the language he used that shocked and appalled many lawmakers and created a public outcry — the vulgar phrase Mr. Trump uttered quickly began trending on Twitter — overshadowing the substance of the DACA talks, and with it, the future of the immigrants at risk of deportation should those discussions fail.Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana and the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, called the president’s closed-door comments “yet another confirmation of his racially insensitive and ignorant views” and said they reinforced “the concerns that we hear every day, that the president’s slogan, ‘Make America Great Again,’ is really code for ‘Make America White Again.’”Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, described the comments as “the most odious and insidious racism masquerading poorly as immigration policy,” and argued that they would make it more difficult for the two parties to reach consensus on an immigration deal.“It inflames and encourages the worst instinct and the basest dark side of immigration issues,” Mr. Blumenthal said. He added that he had spoken with several Senate colleagues who expressed “a combination of disbelief and a sense of repugnance” at what the president had said.Mr. Durbin spoke with reporters briefly after the White House gathering, but did not share what the president had said. Looking dejected, he said he and Mr. Graham had gone to meet with Mr. Trump hoping to get the president’s blessing for their bipartisan plan.After President Trump used vulgar language about immigrants, TV news grappled with a question: Were his comments racist?“The president is not prepared to do that at this moment,” Mr. Durbin said, adding, “I don’t know what happens next.”The meeting had gotten off to a grim start after Mr. Durbin and Mr. Graham, who had been summoned by Mr. Trump to discuss their compromise proposal, arrived to find a gaggle of Republicans they had not expected, including immigration hard-liners who have been skeptical of a DACA deal, filing into the room to discuss the plan.One of them, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, later offered a blistering appraisal of the Durbin-Graham deal, calling it “a joke of a proposal” and arguing that Democrats had not offered Republicans “anything legitimate in return” for accepting legal status for the Dreamers.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump convened a televised bipartisan negotiating session on the issue in which he said he wanted lawmakers to negotiate a “bill of love” for the DACA recipients and tasked the Democratic and Republican leaders in both the House and the Senate to negotiate a final deal.Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas and the No. 2 Senate Republican, said Thursday that any immigration compromise could not simply be hammered out by a small group of senators, referring to Mr. Durbin and Mr. Graham.“I think what the president told them is it’s fine for them to have negotiated what they think is a reasonable proposal, but what they need to do is share that with others so that it will have broad enough support to actually get passed,” Mr. Cornyn said, adding, “We need to have more than six votes for a proposal.”When he first moved to rescind the DACA program, Mr. Trump gave lawmakers six months to come up with a replacement. But Democrats have pressed to include a solution in a broad spending package, which must be completed by a deadline of next Friday, when a short-term bill funding the government will expire. They are under extraordinary pressure from their progressive base to withhold their votes to keep the government open unless the immigration measure is included.One of the Senate negotiators, Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, cast doubt on passing a bill by that deadline. But he expressed hope that the deal being put together by Mr. Durbin’s group could move ahead soon.“It’s the only game in town,” Mr. Flake said. “There’s no other bill.”An earlier version of this article included an incorrect figure for the spending proposed on border security under a bipartisan immigration deal. The proposal includes $2.7 billion in border security spending, not $2.7 million. An earlier version also incorrectly identified where the meeting took place. It was in the Oval Office, not the Cabinet Room.Michael D. Shear and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byGood evening. Here’s the latest.____________Our correspondents in Beijing explained why. They say that the tariffs would have minimal impact on China and that Beijing has more effective weapons it could use in a trade war. Above, a steel plant in Shandong Province.____Witnesses said the gunman claimed to be acting on behalf of the Islamic State, but it was unclear if he had any ties to the group. He was killed by the police when they stormed the supermarket.____Michael R. Davidson, 37, was a 15-year veteran of the department, with four commendations for bravery, and a father of four. He was somehow separated from other firefighters as the blaze intensified and forced them to pull back.The building, which was one of Harlem’s few remaining jazz clubs before it closed, was being used for the filming of “Motherless Brooklyn,” based on a book by Jonathan Lethem and directed by Edward Norton.____Kat Sullivan says she was abused by a teacher at the Emma Willard School. A report commissioned by the school concluded that the teacher was fired for sexual abuse — but was still given a recommendation to teach elsewhere.The statute of limitations has expired, leaving Ms. Sullivan with no legal recourse. So she bought the billboards, one of which pushes a bill that would give victims until age 28 to file criminal charges.____Tech companies and automakers are spending billions developing self-driving cars in the belief that the market for them could one day be worth much more. The crash, which occurred Sunday night, is a major setback for Uber.________“This is just what America needs,” Seth Meyers joked. “The thrilla in vanilla.”Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAs Congress considers a deal to provide relief for young immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, President Trump and his Republican allies are demanding an end to what they call “chain migration,” or family-based immigration.The term itself has become a point of contention. Democrats and immigration advocates claim it is a pejorative phrase that demeans recent arrivals. Republicans argue it’s a useful shorthand for family sponsorship.Below is a look at the facts behind recent family/chain immigration patterns, the underlying federal policies that govern them, and a look at how use of the phrase “chain migration” itself has very suddenly become a contentious and polarizing part of the debate.How does the sponsorship process work?After a petition is filed and approved, would-be immigrants are essentially handed a ticket number called a “priority date” and can only apply for a green card when the State Department calls their number.Depending on the country of origin, a sponsor’s immigration status and the applicant’s relationship to their sponsor, the waiting period can last from months to decades.What is the relationship between “chain migration” and DACA?To apply for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, immigrants had to be younger than 31 on June 15, 2012, and must have proof of having arrived in the United States before age 16.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.If Dreamers are given a pathway to citizenship through legislation, they in turn could sponsor their parents for legal status as well. But those who entered the United States illegally are required to leave the country and wait three or 10 years before applying for an immigration visa. That’s “a significant barrier most would be unlikely to contemplate,” according to the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute.Where does chain migration come in?Why the sudden uptick?Democrats, meanwhile, prefer the term “family reunification” and say the practice is a reflection of American values.“Chain Migration” is an epithet. It was invented. The term is “family immigration” and it’s the way America has literally always worked.Leo Chavez, a professor at the University of California at Irvine who studies media representations of immigration, said he had seldom heard ”chain migration” in public discourse until the debate over immigration intensified in the last few months.“It’s an attempt to sway public opinion,” Mr. Chavez said, adding that the once-scholarly term has taken on negative connotations as “if it’s a conspiracy, a plot, a threat to the changing demographics.”It is not unlike “anchor baby,” “the browning of America” or even “Dreamers,” on the flip side, Mr. Chavez said. Such phrases have become more common in the ongoing debate about “how you talk about who are citizens, who are members of the nation and who can become Americans. It’s never a settled question. It hasn’t been for 200 years and it isn’t now.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOpinionDonald Trump is not subtle. While normal political language functions through implication and indirection, Mr. Trump luxuriates in saying the quiet part loud. But in doing so, Mr. Trump exposes what drives the politics of the movement he commands. That is most evident in the way he talks about crime and punishment.No president since Richard Nixon has embraced the weaponized rhetoric of “law and order” as avidly as Mr. Trump. “When I take the oath of office next year, I will restore law and order to our country,” he said during his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention in 2016. “I will work with, and appoint, the best prosecutors and law enforcement officials in the country to get the job properly done. In this race for the White House, I am the law and order candidate.”Yet this tough-guy stance disappears when the accused are in the president’s inner circle. In defending Rob Porter, the White House senior aide accused of abuse by both of his ex-wives, the president wondered whatever happened to due process while praising a man accused of giving his wife a black eye. (Mr. Porter denies the abuse.)It’s no surprise that Mr. Trump’s critics pounced. Where was this concern for due process, they asked, when the president and his supporters chanted “Lock her up” about Hillary Clinton, who hadn’t even been formally accused of a crime? Where was his devotion to due process when he called for the Central Park Five to be executed, and then, after their exoneration, still maintained that they were guilty?As tempting as it is to hammer Mr. Trump for his epic hypocrisy, it is a mistake. The president’s boundless benefit of the doubt for the Rob Porters and Roy Moores of the world, combined with off-with-their-heads capriciousness for immigrants accused of even minor crimes, is not a contradiction. It is the expression of a consistent worldview that he campaigned on and has pursued in office.In this view, crime is not defined by a specific offense. Crime is defined by who commits it. If a young black man grabs a white woman by the crotch, he’s a thug and deserves to be roughed up by police officers. But if Donald Trump grabs a white woman by the crotch in a nightclub (as he’s accused of doing, and denies), it’s locker-room high jinks.This view is also expressed by many of the president’s staff members, supporters and prominent allies. During the same week that the White House chief of staff, John Kelly, repeatedly vouched for Rob Porter’s integrity, Mr. Kelly also mused that hundreds of thousands of unauthorized immigrants who did not fill out the paperwork for DACA protections had refused to “get off their asses.”A political movement that rails against “immigrant crime” while defending alleged abusers and child molesters is one that has stopped pretending to have any universalist aspirations. The president’s moral framework springs from an American tradition of cultivating fear and contempt among its white citizens against immigrants, indigenous people and people of color, who are placed on the other side of “the law.” It’s a practice that has taken on new strength at a time when many white people fear they may be outnumbered, outvoted and out of time.This is the opposite of what we like to tell ourselves is the traditional American civic creed: one symbolized by a blindfolded Lady Justice who applies the law without fear or favor to whoever may come before her. It is one of Mr. Trump’s most insidious victories that he has given his supporters permission to drop any pretense of insisting that their actions and views should conform to this principle.If all that matters when it comes to “law and order” is who is a friend and who is an enemy, and if friends are white and enemies are black or Latino or in the wrong party, then the rhetoric around crime and punishment stops being about justice and is merely about power and corruption.And this is what “law and order” means: the preservation of a certain social order, not the rule of law. It shouldn’t have taken this long to see what has always been staring us in the face. After all, the last president to focus so intensely on law and order, Richard Nixon, the man who helped usher in mass incarceration, was also the most infamous criminal to occupy the Oval Office. The history of the United States is the story of a struggle between the desire to establish certain universal rights and the countervailing desire to preserve a particular social order.We are now witnessing a president who wholly embraces the latter. America can have that kind of social order, or it can have justice for all. But it can’t have both.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSIn Dallas, a 93-year-old is worried about the woman who, for years, has come to her house four days a week to help with shopping, laundry, housecleaning and driving. “She’s just a wonderful person, someone I feel I can trust completely,” said the older woman.But because her helper is an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, both women increasingly fear that she’ll be detained and deported. (I’m withholding their names for that reason.)“If this woman gets pulled over today, who will help my mother tomorrow?” said her daughter, an attorney in Oakland, Calif.In Brooklyn, Mary DiGangi, the human resources director at the Menorah Center for Rehabilitation and Nursing Care, recently asked local employment agencies to find 20 to 25 new nursing assistants and practical nurses.It’s a typical request, and usually, she said, “I’m flooded with applications the next day.” This time, she saw only five applications over a month.She thinks the Trump administration’s immigration policies and rhetoric have discouraged potential workers. Menorah, part of MJHS Health System, draws heavily on immigrants for its 3,500 employees.“Employees have told me they know it’s going to be OK,” Ms. DiGangi said. “I’m not sure if they’re convincing me or themselves.”In the so-called gray market, where consumers hire home care workers directly and often pay them under the table, the proportion is likely far higher.“We’re seeing a growing work force shortage in direct care,” said Robert Espinoza, vice president of policy for P.H.I. “It’s affecting the entire industry, and it’s affecting older and disabled people and their families.”The shortage stems partly from a growing economy, said Robyn Stone, a veteran researcher at Leading Age, whose nonprofit members include long-term care providers.When employers are hiring, she explained, “these folks are likely to look down the street at a hospital that pays more, or another industry like fast food, and leave.”But the population of working-age women, who typically provide care both paid and unpaid, has shrunk — and they have more career options than they once did.So providing care for older people, in their homes or in facilities, has become the classic example of a job native-born Americans would rather not take.Their advocates have long argued for ways to improve these jobs, with more training and higher pay. For now, though, what P.H.I. calls the “caregiving gap” has been filled by immigrants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The number of immigrants in direct care ballooned from 520,000 in 2005 to approximately one million in 2015, including those who work independently through state home care programs, P.H.I. estimates. In New York, California, New Jersey and Florida, more than 40 percent of direct-care workers are immigrants.If large numbers of immigrants become unable to work or fearful of attracting unwanted attention, “this is going to create tremendous strain,” Dr. Stone said. Already, “we’ve heard of nursing homes that have shut down, or stopped admissions, because they could not hire enough people.”Excluding the gray market, the majority of aides and nursing assistants are American citizens. But P.H.I. has calculated that nearly 35,000 come from Haiti, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Honduras, whose immigrants have had temporary protected status in the United States.The administration has so far terminated T.P.S. status for Haitians, Salvadorans and Nicaraguans; other nationalities may follow. Immigrants from Sudan, whose T.P.S. status was also terminated, will have to leave the United States as early as this fall.Another nearly 11,000 direct care workers come from largely Muslim countries affected by the Trump travel ban and might leave if family members can never join them. An unknown number of workers are DACA recipients who might eventually be forced to leave.Even when workers are legal residents, though, they may consider moving when relatives are deported. Whole neighborhoods and communities feel targeted.“Just the scrutiny is casting a pall,” Dr. Stone said. “If they’re afraid, if they won’t apply for jobs, we could see more shortages.”As that happens, the effects ripple through nursing facilities and home care agencies. “When we struggle to fill positions, the people already working here are working harder,” Ms. DiGangi pointed out. They may take more shifts, or become responsible for more patients.Eventually, especially in rural areas where home care workers have to travel long distances to clients, older adults (and younger ones with disabilities) may not be able to hire people who can help them remain in their homes. In cities and suburbs, older immigrants who want assistance from those who speak their native language could be similarly at a loss.In the San Fernando Valley in Southern California, a home care worker named Norma, who fled El Salvador with her family almost 20 years ago, assists her 91-year-old disabled neighbor under a state program. She works every day from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., helping her client bathe, dress, eat, and circle the block in a wheelchair.While she worries for herself and her husband — and her two daughters, who are DACA recipients — she also fears for her client.“If one day I don’t show up to work, nobody will be there to get her out of bed and change her,” she said. “This could be my own mom, who would be alone one day if nobody came to help.”See More »Go to Home Page »President Trump’s immigration policies faced a renewed legal onslaught on Wednesday, as a coalition of Democratic attorneys general, nonprofit groups and private companies announced they would oppose his rollback of Obama-era protections for people who entered the country illegally as children.In an echo of the campaign against Mr. Trump’s effort this year to ban travelers from parts of the Muslim world, a group of 16 attorneys general — all Democrats — filed suit in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, claiming that Mr. Trump had improperly upended the policy known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or DACA.Led by Attorneys General Eric T. Schneiderman of New York, Maura Healey of Massachusetts and Bob Ferguson of Washington, they alleged Mr. Trump’s shift was driven by racial animus toward Mexican Americans and that the Trump administration failed to follow federal rules governing executive policy making.On Tuesday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the Trump administration would phase out DACA beginning next March. The decision came as a group of Republican attorneys general threatened to sue the administration if it did not end the program.Announcing the legal challenge Wednesday alongside a crowd of young immigrants and immigration advocates, Mr. Schneiderman accused the Trump administration of using the threat of lawsuits as a “pretext” that hid the president’s true motives: bias against immigrants and Latinos.Mr. Schneiderman’s lawsuit said that “ending DACA, whose participants are mostly of Mexican origin, is a culmination of President Trump’s oft-stated commitments — whether personally held, stated to appease some portion of his constituency, or some combination thereof — to punish and disparage people with Mexican roots.”In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Schneiderman said, “We think the court will take a look at what’s behind the change in policy and conclude that the rationales offered yesterday don’t make any sense.”Additional lawsuits are expected: Attorney General Xavier Becerra of California, a Democrat, intends to file a separate challenge to Mr. Trump’s plans, according to people briefed on his plans. Several major companies intend to join the lawsuits, and two, Microsoft and Amazon, have pledged to pay the legal expenses of any employees who become vulnerable to deportation.The loosely coordinated legal strategy faces uncertain prospects, and may represent a kind of precautionary measure for supporters of DACA, who are also engaged in a ferocious campaign aimed at spurring Congress to pass a law protecting people in the program from deportation. The litigation is likely to become a political rallying point for opponents of Mr. Trump, and should the legislative effort fizzle, a court challenge could become an alternative vehicle to derail or delay his policies.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.To some extent, the court battle could reproduce some of the arguments surrounding Mr. Trump’s travel restrictions, pitting the traditionally sweeping powers of the presidency against claims that this particular administration, on a specific matter of policy, had misused its authority.But presidents typically have broad discretion in matters related to national security and border control, and legal opponents of Mr. Trump’s policy are in the awkward position of arguing that while President Barack Obama had the presidential authority to create DACA, Mr. Trump does not have the authority to freely undo it. And the government can also assert that undercutting Mr. Trump’s decision to rescind the program would impinge on his power to enforce immigration law.Jonathan Turley, a professor at George Washington University Law School, said Mr. Obama’s program was always going to be vulnerable to the whims of his successor.“It’d be rather curious if President Trump could not use the same authority that President Obama used to create DACA,” Mr. Turley said. Echoing conservative arguments that Mr. Obama had overstepped his power, he added: “This is a problem you have when you ignore the constitutional structure. This matter should’ve always remained in Congress.”Besides the argument that the Trump administration has violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution, the lawsuit filed Wednesday makes a more complex claim, saying that the administration failed to follow the right process, under the Administrative Procedure Act, for shutting down Mr. Obama’s program.The states argue that DACA had become so entrenched in the immigration system that to abruptly end it was “arbitrary and capricious,” and that such a U-turn demanded a better explanation than what administration officials offered on Tuesday.“Numerous public officials from both political parties have reinforced the federal government’s promise to provide continuity and fair treatment to DACA grantees, and have recognized that DACA grantees have relied on the government’s representations in applying for DACA,” the lawsuit said.Michael J. Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who is helping to sue the administration on behalf of a DACA recipient in a separate lawsuit, said officials were, of course, allowed to change a policy.“But when people have come to rely on it,” he said, “they have to explain themselves.”Andrew J. Pincus, a Washington-based lawyer who has argued frequently before the Supreme Court, suggested Mr. Trump’s approach to DACA might be vulnerable in court, in part because he had done relatively little to justify it as a matter of policy.The Trump administration has cast its withdrawal of Mr. Obama’s policy largely as a matter of legal necessity, arguing that DACA would be unlikely to survive the expected challenge from Republican attorneys general. Devin O’Malley, a spokesman for the Justice Department, defended the DACA announcement as a corrective to Obama administration overreach.“While the plaintiffs in today’s lawsuits may believe that an arbitrary circumvention of Congress is lawful, the Department of Justice looks forward to defending this administration’s position,” Mr. O’Malley said.But Mr. Pincus said that if a court finds the underlying DACA policy is legal, it could unravel that rationale.“The whole basis for rescinding DACA is the conclusion that it’s illegal,” said Mr. Pincus, who is a supporter of the Obama administration policy. “If you’re wrong, your decision is arbitrary and an abuse of discretion.”In the short term, the legal offensive may help galvanize further political opposition to Mr. Trump’s decision, offering activists, businesses and other interest groups a way of magnifying their objections through court filings and placing additional pressure on lawmakers to act. A number of private companies, including Microsoft, Amazon and Starbucks, have filed or are expected to file briefs supporting the multistate lawsuit.Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, indicated the company would use its considerable resources to oppose Mr. Trump’s policy in other ways: He said in a blog post on Tuesday that Microsoft would pay for the legal costs of any employee the government threatens to deport, and the company said in a legal document that 39 DACA beneficiaries were “employees or current or recent interns.”Like Microsoft, Amazon said it intended to pay for legal representation for its affected employees, and stated in a legal filing on Wednesday that it had identified nine employees who qualified.Several state attorneys general said they were taking steps to thwart Mr. Trump’s immigration policy in other ways. Mr. Schneiderman said his most immediate concern was to protect the sensitive information immigrants had supplied to the government while applying for DACA status, including addresses and fingerprints.Immigration officials said on Tuesday that information would not be “proactively” used to arrest the immigrants after DACA expires but could be made available for criminal and national security investigations.Mr. Becerra said the forthcoming litigation from his office would be one part of a larger strategy to marshal resistance to Mr. Trump’s immigration order. “I don’t care if it’s in the court of law or in the court of public opinion, we’re going to fight,” Mr. Becerra said.Nick Wingfield contributed reporting from Seattle.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byTurning PointsEvery country has its own Dreamers, as these young immigrants are known. As they grow up, study, build businesses and exchange ideas, they help fortify a globalized world where cultures mix.The residents of this modern world order endorse a new kind of citizenship and democracy. They don’t settle for voting, but are eager to protest when they believe they are being treated unjustly. They strive for self-sustaining economic growth. They are concerned with the major shifts in climate around the planet.These citizens of the world know their value. Regardless of skin color, upbringing or nationality, they are able to thrive in different types of environments. We see examples every day of these evolved people, who are fighting to end racism and bring equality, inclusion and representation to their governments.Immigration is nuanced and complicated, and there is no simple answer for how a government should deal with the issues of national security. Anyone who has ever led a nation, myself included, understands the priority of keeping citizens safe. The answer, though, is not to punish the men and women whose admiration and dedication to a country has served as the catalyst for their hard work and success.We have heard many stories of young people arriving in America with their parents, whose dreams of providing the best life possible for their children emboldened them to risk a hazardous border crossing into unknown territory. Those young people have gone on to acquire educations, careers and communities; helped their parents to fill out job applications and medical forms in English; and sent aid and guidance back to their birthplaces. They aren’t trying to hurt their adopted country — just the opposite. They’re just looking to be recognized.America is so admired because of what it seems to represent: equality and opportunity and heterogeneity. Rescinding DACA would be a huge step backward for a nation that has always prided itself on its forbearance. The potential damage to hundreds of thousands of lives is unquantifiable, and the upside is nonexistent. This change would punish the people who wanted so badly to live in a country that they risked everything they had to get there.If the future is bringing the notion of a global identity, and countries without borders, it remains imperative that we prioritize the preservation and celebration of our cultural traditions. Our customs provide us with an exciting mix of ideas, experiences and stories to contribute.As we honor what each individual brings to the table by way of their background, the term “minority” will become an anachronism. Each person has a unique story and skill set, effectively making all of us equal in our potential contributions to society.Conservative movements have risen in opposition to this cultural blending, not only in America, but all over the world, from the Brexit efforts in Britain to the far right party Alternative for Germany’s presence in this year’s election. Rapid change and disruption have brought instability and concern, and in response conservative leaders are promising tranquillity and security through protectionism and excessive nationalism.We cannot resort to this old answer to a new struggle. It is no longer feasible to shut our doors in a world that is commingled politically, economically, socially and culturally. Banning men and women from entering a country based on their religion is bigoted and hateful.Denying refugees and those seeking asylum the opportunities many of our countries are equipped to provide them is needlessly cruel and, as in the case of DACA, only serves to hurt our most vulnerable fellow humans.Vicente Fox Quesada was the president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSPresident Trump said legislation around an immigration overhaul should come from love, while also pushing for stronger security measures.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Tuesday appeared open to negotiating a sweeping immigration deal that would eventually grant millions of undocumented immigrants a pathway to citizenship, declaring that he was willing to “take the heat” politically for an approach that seemed to flatly contradict the anti-immigration stance that charged his political rise.The president made the remarks during an extended meeting with congressional Republicans and Democrats who are weighing a shorter-term agreement that would extend legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. The 90-minute session — more than half of which played out on national television — appeared to produce some progress: Mr. Trump agreed to a framework for a short-term immigration deal to couple protection for young, undocumented immigrants with border security.The push for an immigration deal with Democrats has the potential to alienate the hard-line anti-immigration activists who powered his political rise and helped him win the presidency, many of whom have described it as amnesty for lawbreakers. If he succeeds, it could be compared to Richard Nixon’s historic trip to China. Only an anti-Communist hard-liner could have made the opening acceptable to his supporters.If he fails, it would be more like Ronald Reagan in Reykjavik, Iceland, where he suggested eliminating much of the United States and Soviet nuclear arsenal, a momentary glimmer of idealism that was crushed by a backlash from his own party.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, floated the idea of a broader immigration deal during the meeting in the White House Cabinet Room on Tuesday, making clear that it would have to include a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants already in the country.Mr. Trump replied: “If you want to take it that further step, I’ll take the heat. I will take all the heat. You are not that far away from comprehensive immigration reform.”Lawmakers from both parties were taken aback by the president’s words.“My head is spinning with all the things that were said by the president and others in that room in the course of an hour and a half,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who has been leading the talks.The president has been known to make conflicting or contradictory statements on complex policy issues, only to walk them back or change his mind. White House officials declined to provide specifics about what kind of immigration overhaul the president would favor, saying he was focused on the shorter-term measure that would shield undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children from deportation, in exchange for more border agents and a down payment on a border wall.But the comments earlier Tuesday were a remarkable break with the divisive messaging that propelled Mr. Trump to the White House and the harsh policies that have defined his first year in office, marked by efforts to demonize and deport immigrants who have entered the country illegally.Instead, the president presented himself on Tuesday as a deal maker eager to find common ground and unconcerned with — if not blithely unaware of — the political perils of immigration debates. The phrase “comprehensive immigration reform” is detested by anti-immigration activists.“I don’t think it’s going to be that complicated,” Mr. Trump told lawmakers assembled around his cabinet table of a broad immigration measure.Republican senators were deeply skeptical.“I don’t think comprehensive reform is as imminent as he would think it could be,” Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa said after returning from the White House.Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia, cautioned against talk of a far-reaching deal. “I don’t like the word ‘comprehensive,’” he said. “That hasn’t worked as it relates to immigration.”Mr. Trump’s call for a comprehensive solution came just after Mr. Graham had said he was a proponent of “a pathway to citizenship for 11 million people,” and then predicted “a drumbeat” of vitriol against such an approach. “Right-wing radio and talk show hosts are going to beat the crap out of us,” he said “It’s going to be ‘amnesty’ all over again.”Mr. Trump seemed almost to relish such a fight.“My whole life has been heat,” he shrugged. “I like heat, in a certain way.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The White House meeting itself was extraordinary, an extended negotiating session that was broadcast by the news channels at a time when questions about Mr. Trump’s mental acuity and fitness for his job have been dominating the headlines.Nearly 800,000 young undocumented immigrants were shielded from deportation under the DACA program, which granted them renewable two-year work permits. Immigrant rights advocates say 14,000 of the young people have already lost their protected status because their permits have expired, and they have been unable to renew them.Lawmakers returning from the White House meeting said Democrats and Republicans had agreed on four topics to be negotiated as part of a narrower DACA deal: the fate of beneficiaries of the program, border security, family-based immigration and the visa lottery. A handful of Democrats and Republicans have been meeting for months to try to hammer out a deal along those lines, and the president’s backing of that scope was a startling shift for them.“I was pleasantly surprised,’’ said Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who has participated in those negotiations. “It was a better meeting than I expected. You can’t negotiate that much with that many people but the president expressed flexibility.’’Still, Congress has a lot of work ahead on these areas before lawmakers come to a deal that everyone can agree on.During the session, Mr. Trump repeatedly went back to his call for a broad and comprehensive immigration bill, even as Democratic and Republican lawmakers cautioned him of the failures of the past. Some Republicans pointedly said Mr. Trump was being too ambitious. Even Democrats worried that more immediate immigration matters might fail to pass with the broader package now on the table.“The fierce urgency of now is for these 800,000 Dreamers,” said Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, referring to the nickname for the young immigrants now in limbo.Democrats have insisted that protections for those immigrants be part of any agreement to fund the government beyond Jan. 19, when current funding expires.But the president said action on the more ambitious immigration measure would be possible as soon as the next day.“We can do DACA and start comprehensive reform the following afternoon,” Mr. Trump said. “We will take an hour off and start.”“You created an opportunity here, Mr. President,” Mr. Graham said to Mr. Trump, “and you need to close the deal.”The president’s pivot drew swift rebukes from conservatives and immigration activists who have been among Mr. Trump’s staunchest supporters.Roy Beck, the executive director of NumbersUSA, which pushes for reducing immigration, said the deal that Mr. Trump envisioned, like previous grants of amnesty, would bolster both illegal and legal immigration levels, flooding the American labor market.“Amnesty-now and enforcement/reform-later agreements always fail the American people,” Mr. Beck said in a statement. “President Trump must hold fast to his compact with American workers to greatly reduce both the illegal and legal competition from mass migration.”The president said he would insist on strict new immigration limits as part of any such measure, although he seemed to concede that his call for a “wall” might not entail the kind of physical barriers that many Democrats have viewed as a nonstarter.He conceded that “We don’t need a 2,000-mile wall” because parts of the border are impassible and noted that Democrats had voted for border fencing in the past. Afterward, Republicans and Democrats both said they believed Mr. Trump was using the term “wall” to describe border security, not necessarily a giant physical barrier.Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.California, Mr. Becerra said, is “ready to file suit.”Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorThe White House is assertively working to make America white again, and Democrats are too afraid to speak that truth. The aggressive pace of deportations of immigrants of color, the elimination of the DACA program protecting immigrant children and the proposals propounded by the anti-immigration voices in the administration will all have the undeniable effect of slowing the rapid racial diversification of the United States population. Despite this sweeping attempt at racial social engineering, few voices in progressive and Democratic circles are responding with the kinds of outrage that one would expect.The pro-white preferences of Donald Trump and his administration, especially when it comes to immigration, are legion. From the day he opened his presidential campaign in 2015 by demonizing Mexicans to the enthusiasm generated by the calls for building a wall along the Mexican border to aggressively ramping up deportations of immigrants of color to eliminating DACA to vulgarly denigrating African nations and Haiti, this administration has been quite clear about its preference for white people.“Decades ahead,” he added, “many fewer of us would be nonwhite or have nonwhite people in our families.”Most people would probably like to believe that the era of widespread public support for white supremacist policies is over, but you wouldn’t know it from the timidity and rhetorical reticence of progressive and Democratic leaders. When they had the leverage to demand a vote on protections for the Dreamers, Democrats surrendered that influence because they feared the electoral consequences of being seen as fighting for the rights of immigrants. The assessment was that white voters in swing states would retaliate against Democratic candidates, imperiling the prospects for taking back Congress.Setting aside the morality of the matter, these Democratic electoral calculations are flawed in two fundamental respects. First, they underestimate the capacity of white people to rise above racism and stand for justice and equality. Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign was a very thinly veiled appeal to racial anxiety and grievances of white people in America. Study after study has confirmed that racial anxiety, sometimes described as cultural discomfort, was the motivating factor among many of Mr. Trump’s supporters. And yet the fact that Mr. Trump still needed to speak mostly in code shows that there are limits to the effect of explicit racial appeals. In the 2017 elections in Virginia and Alabama, the increase in support among white voters for Ralph Northam for governor and Doug Jones’s Senate candidacy affirmed that racial pandering also alienates whites.To inspire enthusiasm among the voters they need, however, Democrats should be publicly fighting the good fight in the corridors of Congress and simultaneously shouting from rooftops their solidarity with the growing sectors of the population. Instead, too many are so afraid of alarming conservative white voters that they are creeping around in private whispering protestations of loyalty and love that may one distant day be realized in public.The big-picture reality of this moment is that Mr. Trump is too late. His attempts to make America whiter are doomed to fail because the demographic revolution is now irreversible. The driving force of the browning of America is no longer immigration but birth and death rates. A majority of babies being born are of color, and a majority of people dying are white. Whites are already a minority of all children under age 5, so if all immigration ceased tomorrow, the country is still inexorably on a path to a new multiracial reality.Perhaps understanding the math of the matter can inspire Democrats to carry themselves with courage and the confidence that resisting Mr. Trump’s pro-white public policies is not only morally right but also squarely places them on the right side of history.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — It was a made-for-TV moment, perfect for a presidential campaign .His fists clenched and his voice rising, Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, delivered a 10-minute verbal thrashing to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen this week, recalling his “tears of rage” when he learned that President Trump had used vulgarities to describe African nations.Not to be outdone, Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, who was seated next to Mr. Booker, also skewered Ms. Nielsen, suggesting that Americans could draw a “reasonable inference” that she is racist.The next presidential election is nearly three years away, but in the Capitol the race is already unfolding, with no fewer than six senators — Mr. Booker and Ms. Harris, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — eyeing the Democratic nomination in 2020, with each angling to get to the left of the others.The fissure between 2018 and 2020 has been on display in the Capitol this week, as Washington barrels toward a possible government shutdown that can be averted only if lawmakers approve a stopgap spending measure by Friday. For that to happen, at least nine Democratic senators need to vote for it.Five of the six presidential hopefuls have long said they would not vote for any spending bill that does not include protection for hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, who have been shielded from deportation by an Obama-era program that Mr. Trump rescinded. (The sixth, Ms. Klobuchar, also voted against the last short-term spending bill.)But some red-state Democrats like Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia (a state Mr. Trump carried with nearly 68 percent of the vote) are equivocating, clearly worried that Democrats could take the blame for a shutdown if the spending bill does not pass.“We’ve got 48 hours, and that’s a lifetime in the news cycle around here,” a nervous-sounding Mr. Manchin said Wednesday, as he hurried through the Capitol while avoiding reporters’ questions about whether he would vote for the spending bill.“I want to keep the government open,” Mr. Manchin insisted repeatedly. “I’m just going to work and work and work to keep the government open.”Republicans, watching some vulnerable Democrats squirm, are delighted, sensing an opportunity in what looks to be an otherwise dismal election year.“The Democrats running in the 10 states that Donald Trump carried have all demonstrated an ability to get elected in Republican states, so they obviously have something going for them,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican strategist. “But having the Democratic Party veer further and further to the left makes their lives substantially more difficult.”Democrats stood firmly together last year, when every Senate Democrat voted against repealing the Affordable Care Act and the Republicans’ tax overhaul. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said Wednesday that his caucus is overwhelmingly opposed to the proposal by House Republicans to pair a stopgap spending bill with long-term funding for the popular Children’s Health Insurance Program.“The revulsion toward that bill was broad and strong,” Mr. Schumer said, adding, “There’s very, very strong support not to go along with their deal.”But Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who leads the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, signaled that Democrats would not be voting in lock step this time. “I think every member will do what they always do, which is make a judgment as to what’s best for people in their state,” Mr. Van Hollen said.The fate of the young, undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, has become a cause célèbre on the left, and Democrats are under intense pressure from progressive advocacy groups to ensure that the protections conferred by the Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, are enshrined into law.About 780,000 Dreamers have been protected by DACA, and Mr. Trump has given lawmakers until early March to pass legislation codifying it.The president and Republicans say they are for protecting the Dreamers. But they insist that those protections be paired with money for border security — including the border wall that Mr. Trump promised he would build — as well as provisions ending a visa lottery program aimed at bringing in immigrants from countries that do not send many people here, and limits on family-based migration, which critics call “chain migration.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Liberal lawmakers like Ms. Harris, however, are demanding that Congress pass a stand-alone Dream Act (the letters stand for Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors), which would shield the young immigrants from deportation with no strings attached.“I’ve been very clear that we need to have a clean Dream Act, we need to take care of these kids,” Ms. Harris said. “There has been bipartisan expression that we should take care of them, and I see no reason why we should be playing politics with them or thinking of them as leverage for something else.”Liberal advocacy groups, watching the maneuvering, are pleased.“It’s been really good for progressives that there’s been kind of a race among potential presidential candidates to not just be on board, but be leaders on issues like Medicare for all, fighting for Dreamers and fighting against Trump’s giveaways to billionaires and giant corporations,” said Adam Green, a founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a liberal advocacy group.“Anyone on the extended reaches of the presidential watch list who votes against the Dreamers isn’t doing themselves a favor in terms of getting onto the top of the watch list,” he added.Mr. Booker, for one, is taking no chances. During a brief hallway interview in the Capitol this week, he delivered a rousing soliloquy on why he would not vote for any spending bill that did not address the fate of the DACA recipients.“These are American citizens in every single way but a piece of paper,” Mr. Booker said. “They are people who’ve served in our military; we should honor and respect that,” he added. “These are first responders; we should honor and respect that. These are people who have stood up for America, they are teachers and servants, and I’m not going to leave them behind.”An earlier version of this article misidentified a liberal advocacy group. It is the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, not the Democratic Change Campaign Committee.Go to Home Page »Those derisive statements and others help explain why Democrats entered into the politically perilous fight. After several fruitless efforts at overhauling the nation’s immigration laws, Democrats simply do not trust Republicans, who control Congress and the White House, to follow through on pledges to protect hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants from deportation unless forced to do so.From Mr. Trump on down, Republicans have regularly expressed a desire to provide relief and certainty to the so-called Dreamers, those brought into the country illegally at a young age. But Republicans have struggled to produce a remedy that does not provoke an uproar from anti-immigrant elements of their base, leading Democrats to wonder how a bill to grant permanent protection to those immigrants could pass, particularly in the House.“He promised he loved the Dreamers from his heart, that we would be able to work in a bipartisan way,” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, said Saturday of Mr. Trump. “But he always seems to be pushed back from it.”Democrats have other issues with the administration’s spending priorities, but the impasse over the hundreds of thousands of Dreamers covered under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, is central to the fight. And skepticism over the ability to reach a deal is attributable to the dismal record of Congress and two previous administrations in their efforts to make changes to what virtually all parties agree is a broken immigration system.During the tenures of both George W. Bush and Barack Obama, some of the most influential dealmakers in the Senate — Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, among them — tried repeatedly to forge a compromise that would increase border security and provide a path to legalization for millions of undocumented immigrants.But public sentiment had shifted among Republicans and their constituents despite the support for an immigration overhaul from the top of the party. The deals either collapsed in the Senate or were never even brought up in the House, where sentiment against anything that could be branded as “amnesty” runs deep.“It just all blew up and fell apart,” said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia and a participant in bipartisan immigration talks in 2005 who remembered getting bricks for a border wall sent to his office in protest of his effort to forge a deal.Hundreds of thousands of federal workers would be furloughed, affecting a wide range of government programs.Democrats say that twice in recent weeks and another time last year, Mr. Trump appeared to consent to at least the outlines of an agreement that would provide permanent protection for those immigrants. But then he quickly reversed course upon consultation with the hard-line advisers on immigration who have the president’s ear once Democrats depart.Mr. Schumer said that in a White House luncheon meeting Friday, he offered significant concessions for the DACA legislation, including a large increase in Pentagon spending as well as an agreement to meet the president’s demand for money for the border wall with Mexico that Democrats had previously refused. Democrats say the White House rejected the proposal hours later, asserting that it did not go far enough to limit the ability of new immigrants to bring in more relatives to live in the United States.The president’s shifting positions have left Democrats exasperated.“I essentially agreed to give the president something he has said he wants in exchange for something we both want,” Mr. Schumer said on Sunday.Republicans say that this situation is different from ones that led to previous immigration failures, and that they are fully committed to negotiating in good faith when the shutdown is ended.“Now we have a deadline and we have bipartisan willingness to deal with the issue,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican. “I think it’s different.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Both Republicans and Democrats say Mr. Trump’s endorsement of any immigration deal is essential, since it is the only way a sufficient number of House Republicans could be enticed to vote for it under cover of Mr. Trump’s backing.“That makes it easier for House action,” said Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has been part of the latest round of bipartisan immigration talks. “I think if he finds a way to like it, they can pass it in the House.”But Mr. Trump’s backing is no guarantee of Republican votes. And even if he does endorse a plan, Republicans worry that he could change his mind at any time.In recent months, Republicans suggested that they would hold a strong hand in any funding showdown because Democrats would be reluctant to force a government shutdown over undocumented immigrants. If Democrats did, Republicans figured they would have a strong message to counter with by attacking Democrats as willing to shortchange Americans to help those who entered the country illegally.They are now aggressively pressing that line of assault. But the message is also provoking new doubts about the sincerity of Republican determination to help Dreamers, muddying an immigration debate that is at the center of the conflict and has confounded Washington for almost 20 years.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byChaos.That seemed to be the descriptor most tossed around last week to capture the circus around Donald Trump.But I think chaos is the fruit of this poison tree, not the root of it. That is to say that I don’t believe that Trump desires chaos because he feels most at peace when the world around him is experiencing pandemonium.Rather, I believe that this chaos is the perpetual result of the absolute incompetence and idiocy of a preening philistine who has faked his way through life pretending that he knows more than he does and is tougher than he is.He has two diametrically opposed impulses.On the other hand, and with other issues, his convictions are not fixed at all, but ephemeral and fleeting, changing from moment to moment, like the pattern of fog on a glass.This is when you can see that he is clearly faking it. He wants so desperately to be right that he says whatever his audience — whether that be a small group or a filled arena, whether that be members of Congress or fans at a rally — want to hear and will respond to.This is how you can get wildly vacillating positions and bold, empty promises in bipartisan meetings with the man — whether those meetings are about addressing DACA and immigration or about addressing gun control after the school shooting in Florida.And one thing that clearly comes across in those meetings is how much he talks rather than listens. It’s all about what he believes, what he would do, how courageous he is, how conciliatory he is, how smart he is about the subject.That is precisely how you know that none of it is true, and that he is simply stringing together a jumble of words into conflicting ideas. You see a fear of being exposed as an idiot and fraud. As Friedrich Nietzsche once put it: “Talking much about oneself can also be a means to conceal oneself.”So Trump simply bulldozes his way through, boasting and bragging, distracting and dissembling, making promises without making sense.People used to dealing with a sane, logical person who generally doesn’t lie and generally makes sense are left scratching their heads, wondering whether to believe what they have heard, whether to make plans and policies around it.Believing anything Trump says is a recipe for a headache and heartache. The old rules no longer apply. We see the world as through a window — as it is, even if we are a bit removed from the whole of it.Trump sees it as if in a house of mirrors — everything reflecting some distorted version of him. His reality always seems to return to a kind of delusional narcissism.The great danger in all of this is that a man who knows little but is pretending to know much can easily be manipulated by those who know more.“Supporters of the tariffs have begun broadcasting televised ads in recent days during programs that Mr. Trump has been known to watch. One such ad ran on Fox News minutes before the president’s Twitter post on Thursday morning.”He made the move against the advice of his own director of the National Economic Council, Gary Cohn, and his defense secretary, Jim Mattis.As is Trump’s wont, he doubled down defending his hasty decision by trying to render something fraught and nuanced as simple and easy.He tweeted Friday, at 5:50 a.m. no less, that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.” Only a simpleton with no true comprehension of global trade systems would say such a thing. And he did.As is the case most often with this man, the subjects aren’t simple, but his understanding is.It is this constant attempt to render the big things small and to make his limited knowledge and ability appear not only sufficient but extraordinary, that leads to Trump’s constant state of chaos.Trump keeps trying to bend the world to meet him, rather than rising to meet the world. That has never worked and never will. It only compounds the chaos.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — With little hope of an immigration agreement this week, Republicans in Congress are looking to head off a government shutdown this weekend by pairing another stopgap spending measure with long-term funding for the popular Children’s Health Insurance Program, daring Democrats to vote no.The bill would leave in limbo hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. But Democrats would still be left with a difficult political decision: withhold their votes unless the plight of such immigrants, known as Dreamers, is addressed and risk a government shutdown, or vote to keep the government open and fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which provides coverage for nearly nine million children.The bill would set up another possible showdown in mid-February, with government funding set to expire Feb. 16. But it would give lawmakers time to continue negotiations on immigration and long-term government funding levels.“With no imminent deadline on immigration and with bipartisan talks well underway, there is no reason why Congress should hold government funding hostage over the issue of illegal immigration,” Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said on Tuesday.The plan, put forth by House Republicans on Tuesday, does not extinguish the suspense on Capitol Hill this week. House Republican leaders may be unable to secure passage of the bill with solely Republican votes, since Republicans eager to increase military spending have been frustrated with stopgap spending measures.“This is just buying time,” said Representative Mark Sanford, Republican of South Carolina. “I think it’s the best of the available bad choices.”In the meantime, Dreamers and those who support them protested at Republican lawmakers’ offices.“We want to keep the government open,” Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip, said on Tuesday. “But we’re not going to be held hostage to do things that we think are contrary to the best interests of the American people.”If Republican leaders can push the bill through the House this week, the Senate — where at least nine Democratic votes will be needed — is no sure bet. Some Democrats in that chamber — especially those considering a White House run — are expected to oppose any spending measure that does not protect the young undocumented immigrants.But Democrats up for re-election this year may be reluctant to oppose the bill and risk being blamed for a shutdown.Mr. McConnell said lawmakers have “at least until March, at a minimum, and possibly even longer” to reach a DACA agreement.In the bill to be passed this week to avoid a shutdown, Republicans would also suspend a tax imposed by the Affordable Care Act on medical devices, as well as a tax on providers of health insurance. In addition, it would delay the law’s tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage, known as the Cadillac tax.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Having dithered for months, Congress has suddenly discovered a painless, cost-free way to extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP. The bill would extend the program’s funding for six years.“I cannot see the Democrats voting against the Children’s Health Insurance Program,” said Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, “but they’ll be given that option in this funding bill.”Members of Congress responsible for the program said the new estimate should clear the way for a swift renewal of the program.The solution results almost entirely from a curious quirk in the way costs are estimated by the Congressional Budget Office — and from the unforeseen consequences of Congress’s decision to eliminate a pillar of the Affordable Care Act, the penalties for people who go without health insurance.“Thanks to the repeal of the individual mandate tax, C.B.O. updated its score and gave us the momentum to push a long-term CHIP extension across the finish line,” said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the Finance Committee. “We must stop holding CHIP hostage.”Funds for the program lapsed at the end of September. Congress provided a short-term infusion of money last month, and the Trump administration has shuffled money among states to help those with the most urgent needs. Nevertheless, some states have informed families that their children could lose coverage because of delays and inaction by Congress.Extending CHIP for six years “may have no cost” to the federal government, said Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon and the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, said that extending the program for 10 years would save $6 billion, according to the budget office. “With this news,” he said, “securing kids’ health care for the long-term should be a no-brainer.”The Children’s Health Insurance Program, created in 1997 with bipartisan support, is given credit for a big increase in the proportion of children who have coverage. But Republicans and Democrats have squabbled for months over how to pay for it.In the tax bill signed last month by Mr. Trump, Congress eliminated the penalties for people who go without health insurance, starting in 2019. The Congressional Budget Office, like many health policy experts, believes that healthier people will be less likely to obtain insurance, so that people who remain in the health law’s marketplace — including children — will face higher premiums than they otherwise would.Extending CHIP saves money, the budget office said, because it would be less expensive for the government than the alternatives — if many of those children enroll in Medicaid or in government-subsidized marketplace coverage.The taxes on medical devices, health insurance providers and high-cost employer-sponsored health plans were all imposed by the Affordable Care Act, to help pay for the expansion of coverage under the law. All three would have been repealed under the bill passed last year by the House to dismantle that law.Many Democrats have joined Republicans in opposing the device tax, which they describe as a threat to innovative medical technology. The bill would suspend it during two years, 2018 and 2019.Health insurance companies have strenuously opposed the tax on insurance providers, saying the additional costs are generally passed on to consumers, businesses, state governments and taxpayers. The bill would suspend it for 2019.The “Cadillac tax” is meant to help rein in the cost of employee health benefits. Instead of taking effect in 2020, it would be delayed until 2022.Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorThis article has been updated to reflect news developments.DAVIS, CALIF. — On Tuesday Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the White House’s plan to rescind protections for young immigrants who arrived in the United States illegally as children, but with a six-month grace period to let Congress respond. The program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, grants those who qualify for the program a reprieve from deportation, which they must renew every two years.The White House claims that DACA, which President Barack Obama announced in 2012 and which has broad bipartisan support, is illegal, but deferred action is a widely accepted legal principle. Over the last five years, DACA has become a core part of America’s immigration landscape: DACA has been granted to more than 800,000 immigrants, allowing them to attend school, work and contribute to their communities. Its repeal would upend the lives not only of these “Dreamers,” as participants are called, but also of their families, co-workers and employers.The announcement leaves the Dreamers with countless questions. While authorities have said they won’t prioritize DACA participants after the program ends, how easily could that change? Will Congress come through with a replacement? The announcement says that information provided in DACA applications would not be proactively shared, with some exceptions — but does that leave open the possibility that information may be shared upon request from enforcement agencies?At least two things are clear, however. First, the government must continue to treat current DACA recipients as people with deferred action, who should not be removed unless they violate the terms of DACA. Officials say that some recipients will be allowed to keep their status and even renew; the government should make this clear and apply it to all current DACA participants. The Department of Homeland Security has its own standard operating procedures that specify the process of how one’s particular DACA approval may be rescinded. The government must continue to comply with its own guidelines and not revoke a person’s deferral arbitrarily.Second, and most important, is what the government does with the information Dreamers gave it as part of their application — information that amounts to an admission of their having entered the country illegally, albeit without their knowledge, since they were children at the time. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which administers DACA, should delete all their information.Applicants gave that information with the assurance that it would not be shared with Immigration and Customs Enforcement or Customs and Border Enforcement, the agencies that otherwise would be charged with deporting them. As the Citizenship and Immigration Services’ own guidance states, “information provided in this request is protected from disclosure to ICE or C.B.P.,” unless the applicant commits a crime or poses a national security threat.Dreamers divulged information to the government, expecting that their information would not be shared. The information includes not only potentially incriminating information like date of initial entry and length of stay in the United States, but also details like their names, addresses, school information and Social Security numbers — precisely what the government needs to locate and detain them quickly.As Zachary Price of the University of California Hastings College of the Law has argued, using such information would constitute entrapment. Courts have thrown out convictions of defendants who were prosecuted based on actions, statements or information they provided when they were assured that their conduct would not lead to adverse action. Dreamers facing deportation could apply the same logic here. Absent that information, it would be much harder, though not impossible, to deport them. Allowing the government to use their information would be, to quote the Supreme Court in a leading entrapment case, “shocking to the universal sense of justice.”This is information that Dreamers would not have given the government without such nondisclosure assurances. They thought they could trust the government. In fact, in some cases lawyers advised clients who were considering applying not to, precisely, they said, because the government couldn’t be trusted.Allowing the government to use the information obtained through DACA to find these individuals and remove them would not only be heartless, but would set a dangerous precedent. Even if Congress, sometime in the future, were to enact a legislative equivalent of DACA, what are the chances that undocumented immigrants would once again put their faith in a government database?In an interview President Trump gave days after his inauguration, he said that he was looking at the DACA program with a “big heart.” Seven months later, many are heartbroken about the loss of a program that has brought thousands of Americans a sense of belonging despite their lack of “papers.” But as in so many cases under this still-young administration, the expansive cruelty of the executive branch may yet be tempered by the powers and wisdom of America’s legal system.Rose Cuison Villazor, a law professor at the University of California at Davis, is co-editor, with Gabriel Chin, of “The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965: Legislating a New America.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, on Friday injected himself into one of the most contentious political debates in the United States, announcing that he and his wife had donated $33 million to a college scholarship program geared toward young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children.The roughly 800,000 so-called Dreamers affected by the program face an uncertain future after President Trump said last year that he planned to end the protections.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump has regularly criticized Mr. Bezos, both for his role at Amazon and for his ownership of The Washington Post, which he bought in 2013. Mr. Trump has accused Amazon of sidestepping taxes and The Post of covering him unfairly.Don Graham, the publisher of The Post when Mr. Bezos bought the paper, is a founder of Dream.US.Mr. Bezos said in a statement that the donation was inspired by the example of his father, Miguel, who came to the United States from Cuba in the early 1960s as part of a wave of thousands of unaccompanied minors.“My dad came to the U.S. when he was 16 as part of Operation Pedro Pan,” Mr. Bezos said in the statement. “He landed in this country alone and unable to speak English. With a lot of grit and determination, and the help of some remarkable organizations in Delaware, my dad became an outstanding citizen, and he continues to give back to the country that he feels blessed him in so many ways. MacKenzie and I are honored to be able to help today’s Dreamers by funding these scholarships.”See More »Go to Home Page »Good evening. Here’s the latest.The cause: tit-for-tat tariffs imposed by China on Monday, and tech’s dark hour of the soul.Facebook is trying to contain the loss of about $100 billion in value. Amazon is under presidential attack._____2. “DACA is dead.”_____The walkouts add to a wave of strikes in red states that began in West Virginia.Mainly organized on Facebook by teachers fed up with years of funding cuts, the protests have caught lawmakers and sometimes the educators’ own unions flat-footed._____She came to resent her husband’s global celebrity. “I am not Mandela’s product,” she once said. “I am the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy.”_____The military said it was targeting Taliban militants._____We won’t spoil the results, but here’s one (unsurprising) conclusion from our panelists: The best student loan repayment system — which would be based on students’ incomes and be able to collect automatically through the tax system — is a far cry from what’s in place in the United States._______________There’s no simple solution, he writes, to the fear of “criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the government’s turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another.”_____Have a great evening._____Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.See More »Go to Home Page »Good morning.We talked to two experts who clerked for Judge Reinhardt to tell us a little bit about him and his legacy: Jeffrey Fisher, a professor at Stanford Law School and Joshua Matz, a constitutional lawyer based in Washington.The questions and their answers have been edited for length and clarity.Q: What were some of his most famous opinions?Two years after vacating an opinion by Judge Reinhardt forbidding states from banning same-sex couples from marrying, the Supreme Court adopted just that constitutional rule.Because California and other western states continually innovate everything from the economy to social policy, the Ninth Circuit tends to hear an outsized portion of “big” cases. It is no accident, therefore, that Judge Reinhardt found himself so often on panels asked to resolve cutting edge legal issues.Q: Who decides who will replace Judge Reinhardt — and how does it happen?There are several vacancies on the Ninth Circuit, now including Judge Reinhardt’s seat. We can expect that over the next year, or less, President Trump will nominate judges to fill most of those positions. However, at this point it is impossible to predict who he will nominate to replace Judge Reinhardt.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)On a Saturday in December, Micheal Brown logged on to Stanford’s admissions portal to check for an early decision.Stanford, though, would prove to be just the first of 20 highly selective colleges he’d get into. In fact, Mr. Brown, a Houston high school senior, was admitted to every school to which he applied — and they all offered him a full ride.Where will he wind up? Stanford remains at the top of his list, but he said six other schools are on that list now, too.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Good morning.Kimberly Archie’s son stopped playing football by age 15. But by then he had already absorbed many hits to the head during eight years of Pop Warner football and one year playing as a high school freshman.By 2014, Ms. Archie’s son, Paul Bright Jr., was 24, and had done something out of character, his mother said: He bought a motorcycle off Craigslist, despite having no riding experience. He fixed it up, and rode it fast without a license or insurance. On Labor Day that year he T-boned another vehicle and died.An examination of her son’s brain revealed previous damage to its frontal lobe, and he was found to have chronic traumatic encephalopathy, more commonly known as C.T.E.Now, California state lawmakers are being asked to bar children under 12 from playing organized tackle football — a requirement supporters say will protect their brains from unnecessary injury and trauma. Ms. Archie, who had been working to make sports safer long before her son’s death, supports the bill, but thinks the age limit should be pushed even higher.“If I’m wrong there is going to be less brain-injury exposure,” she said. “If they’re wrong, kids can die.”“Over my son’s dead body,” Ms. Archie said, “will it not pass.”(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Officials at the Los Angeles Tourism & Convention Board have done the focus groups, and they’ve come up with a controversial conclusion.“The younger generations living in New York love Los Angeles,” Don Skeoch, the board’s chief marketing office said in an email. “This is not fake news, we promise.”The New York-specific ads will run through the end of May, officials say. They are part of a broader campaign in major cities across the United States and even Mexico City and China.Asked to pitch Los Angeles to the most skeptical New Yorkers, Mr. Skeoch said: “We’re just asking that you give us a long weekend.”Near-perfect 72-degree days, he noted, tend to warm even the coldest hearts.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorThere are nearly 700,000 young men and women in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program who could soon be at risk for deportation. These “Dreamers” live in our neighborhoods, attend our schools, fight for our country and contribute to our workplaces. Our leaders in Washington, including President Trump, have a moral obligation to try to protect those who came to our nation as children with their parents, and who are Americans in every way.Our elected officials need to stop trying to pass a large immigration bill that combines protection for Dreamers with other divisive issues, like money for border enforcement and the wall and new rules to limit immigrants’ ability to sponsor family members. Using the plight of Dreamers to introduce measures that otherwise would not pass on their own merits is especially cruel, as it leaves these young people hostage to the wider debate on our broken immigration system.Instead we need a “clean” Dream Act to help these youths now. After all, the reason Congress is even debating immigration at this point stems from the Dreamers’ own courage in advocating a solution consistent with our best democratic traditions.At this moment, however, there seems to be no sanity or progress in the pursuit of a solution for the Dreamers. That is why the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops is urging all Catholics and others of good will to phone their senators and House members today and implore them to pass the Dream Act. Catholic teaching calls for all people to make a commitment to uphold the dignity of every person and to work for the common good of our nation. It is both our moral duty and in our nation’s best interest to guide our lawmakers in this matter.Helping Dreamers to become American citizens is a clear moral test. Condemning them to be sent to countries they do not know would be a stain on our national character and an abandonment of our values.That Congress and the Trump administration tried and failed once to protect Dreamers does not let them off the hook. This is not about the next election but about the family next door. We need to restore confidence in our government and in our identity as an immigrant nation by passing a Dream Act.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONS______________________________Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors, highlighting great stories from around the web.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Standing outside in the freezing cold, dressed in a new navy blue suit and red tie, Leonardo Reyes was feeling a little overwhelmed Tuesday afternoon as he headed to Capitol Hill for President Trump’s State of the Union address. He was the guest of his home-state senator, Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon.“It feels a little strange,” Mr. Reyes said. “It’s not just the suit. It’s the fact that we are in this space where people have the power to determine the outcome of your life.”That seemed like a good plan — until Representative Paul Gosar called the cops.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The powers that be on Capitol Hill did not take appear to take Mr. Gosar as seriously as he took himself. A spokeswoman for the Capitol Police did not return an email request for comment, and AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, dismissed Mr. Gosar’s suggestion with six succinct words.“Clearly, the speaker does not agree,” Ms. Strong said.But, this being Washington, Democrats did not miss an opportunity to pounce.“What he said is outside the circle of decency in terms of members of Congress,” Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, told reporters. She added: “We believe that we’re children of God, and we all have a spark of divinity in us, and for him to make that statement is to dishonor the God who made us. It’s just shameful.”Mr. Reyes came to the United States from Mexico when he was 10 with his mother, who was escaping an abusive relationship. She worked in canneries and in the fields, he said; today Mr. Reyes works as a “bilingual eligibility specialist,” helping elderly and disabled people figure out if they qualify for government services like Medicaid and food stamps. In his spare time, he is an immigration advocate.He never expected Congress to roll out the red carpet for him. But he did not expect anyone to suggest that he be arrested either. He has been in the United States legally since 2012, when he applied for protection from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA.“I refuse to be intimidated,’’ Mr. Reyes said, adding: “I’m not just here representing myself. I’m here representing my family back at home, representing my friends, individuals I’ve met along this journey whose life is in the balance, who are every day waking up with uncertainty.”See More »Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  A majority of young people believe President Donald Trump is racist, dishonest and "mentally unfit" for office, according to a new survey that finds the nation's youngest potential voters are more concerned about the Republican's performance in the White House than older Americans.The poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research and MTV found that just 33 percent of Americans between the ages of 15 and 34 approve of Trump's job performance.That's 9 points lower than all adults, who were asked the same question on a separate AP-NORC survey taken this month."Trump doesn't care about us," said 27-year-old Nicole Martin, an African-American graduate student in Missoula, Montana. "I'm not going to say he's unfit like he has schizophrenia. I do kind of think he's twisted in the head. He just comes off as disgusting to me."The survey is the first in a series of polls designed to highlight the voices of the youngest generation of voters. The respondents, all of whom will be old enough to vote when Trump seeks re-election in 2020, represent the most diverse generation in American history.They would occupy the largest share of the electorate — if they vote at the same rate as older Americans. But history suggests they are also the least likely to vote this fall. In the 2014 midterm elections, for example, only about 20 percent of 18-29 year-olds cast ballots.Asked if she will vote this fall, when the president's party, but not the president himself, will be on the ballot, Martin said: "I haven't really thought about it."Still, there are signs that seven months before the midterm elections, young people appear to be more engaged in politics. Nearly half of younger Americans, 47 percent, say they're personally paying closer attention to politics since Trump's election; 2 in 10 say they're engaging in political activism more than before.High school students led massive protests nationwide last weekend that called for gun control in the wake of the recent school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 dead, and the poll found that young people are more focused about guns than any other issue. Twenty-one percent say the nation's gun laws are their top concern, while 15 percent cited the economy and 8 percent said social inequality.There is widespread agreement among young people about Trump, with more than 7 in 10 saying he "doesn't reflect my personal values.""He doesn't seem to be really for women. He doesn't seem to be for Black Lives Matter. He doesn't seem to be for DACA," said Meghan Carnes, 23, of New York City, referring to a program to allow young immigrants to stay in this country. "He doesn't seem to be for the kids worried about guns. It's extremely disappointing to have a president who doesn't seem to care."The new poll finds that 60 percent describe Trump as "mentally unfit," 62 percent call him "generally dishonest," and 63 percent say he "is a racist." In a mid-February AP-NORC poll, 57 percent of all adults in the U.S. said they believe Trump is racist.Spencer Buettgenbach, 23, of Topeka, Kansas, said the Republican president has emboldened attitudes about racism, sexism and homophobia by "normalizing abusive talk."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Especially living in Kansas — for me as a gay man — it's kind of scary," he said. "He's like the world's worst boogeyman."The poll also found that young people overwhelmingly support watching out for minorities: 69 percent favor a pathway to legal status for immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, 59 percent favor protecting the rights of LGBT citizens, and 58 percent say the same for Muslims.Among other issues young voters feel the strongest about:— 76 percent want the government to allow them to refinance student loan debt at lower rates— 67 percent want a health care system in which "the government provides health insurance to all Americans."— 60 percent want the government to take steps to address climate change.A narrow majority, 55 percent, favor legalizing the recreational use of marijuana. Just under half, 46 percent, believe abortion should be legal "in most cases," with 26 percent opposed.Trump's domestic priorities are far less popular among young people. Only 22 percent favor the Republican-backed tax overhaul, while 40 percent are opposed. More than half oppose construction of a wall along the Mexican border to curb illegal immigration. Thirty-six percent want to increase defense and military spending, though just 27 percent say they're opposed.Kristopher Cochran, 22, a conservative who voted for Trump, said he's "neutral" about the president's job performance so far. He suggested Trump is being treated unfairly by the media — an opinion shared by 54 percent of young Americans.Cochran, a mechanical engineering student at Virginia Tech, dismissed concerns about Trump's mental fitness."If he was mentally unfit, I don't think he would have made as much money as he did, but I can see why people would think that," he said. "I'm not a fan of his incessant need for Twitter. He acts like a child."Cochran is not alone in his strong feelings about the president's use of social media. Asked how they would advise Trump on Twitter, 49 percent said they'd tell him to "delete your account" and 37 percent said "take it down a notch."Just 13 percent said, "Keep doing what you're doing."___The Youth Political Pulse poll of 1,027 young Americans age 15-34 was conducted Feb. 22 to March 9 by the AP-NORC Center and MTV. The poll was conducted using NORC's probability-based AmeriSpeak panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.___Online:AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research: http://www.apnorc.orgGo to Home Page »“There are so many big things that art and culture have to contend with that are so wrong in the world,” Ms. Raicovich said in a telephone interview. “That’s where my focus and energy needs to be, and at the end of the day, I just felt that my vision and that of the board weren’t in enough alignment to get that done.”There was not one specific precipitating event, Ms. Raicovich said, though she did mention that some board members had objected to her decision to close the museum on Donald J. Trump’s Inauguration Day. The museum instead invited members of the community in to make protest posters, buttons and banners.In addition, Ms. Raicovich said, she recently proposed to the board that the museum — in collaboration with other institutions — consider becoming a kind of sanctuary space that connects immigrants with social services. “It was made very clear to me that that was not something that was of interest,” she said.Mark J. Coleman, the museum’s chairman, said that a search for a successor would begin immediately. “Laura brought a vitality and dynamism to her work, and was fearless in exploring new ideas and perspectives through art,” Mr. Coleman said in a prepared statement. “Over the last three years, she produced several popular and critically acclaimed exhibitions and doubled the Museum’s fund-raising capacity.”Ms. Raicovich’s departure raises questions about just how far a museum director can go in taking public positions on issues of the day. While directors hold the artistic reins of a nonprofit institution, they ultimately serve at the pleasure of their boards, which tend to shy away from political controversy.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Even in her short time at the museum, Ms. Raicovich was proving to be an unorthodox director. She was a vocal presence on social media, for example, tweeting her support for young undocumented immigrants who would be at risk of deportation under President Trump’s pledge to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, known as DACA.And she has made no secret of seeing activism and advocacy as an integral part of her leadership role, holding events in people’s homes and on their blocks, for example, since, she said, some immigrant residents — who make up a significant proportion of the museum’s audience — were afraid to go out in public after Mr. Trump’s election.Two city officials called for Ms. Raicovich’s removal at the time, and the museum has yet to announce the results of its investigation into that matter. Ms. Raicovich has said the board’s decision regarding the Israel event simply had to do with an application of the museum’s space rental practice.“I’m very proud of what I was able to accomplish at the Queens Museum,” she said this week, “but I feel like I’ve had three successful years; it’s time to go to the next level and do something else and continue to focus in a way that maybe can’t be accomplished there.”An earlier version of this article misstated when the Queens Museum closed in political protest. It was on Donald J. Trump’s Inauguration Day, not on the one-year anniversary of that event.An earlier version of this article erroneously included the exhibition “Declaration” among projects that Lisa Freiman had put on hold. “Declaration” will open in April.Go to Home Page »Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:“It’ll go away,” a 77-year-old gun owner in Virginia said of the protests. “Like all the other times.”Forty miles away, a high school student had a different take: “They’re looking for us to get bored. We’re not going to get bored.”The young activists are hoping to drive real change in this fall’s midterm elections and beyond, but that would hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout for their age group.• Twelve years ago, Charles Kushner was making wallets at a prison camp in Alabama.So it felt like redemption when the real estate baron’s son Jared was named President Trump’s senior adviser.The devices are so easily concealed that it’s possible to vape in class.Eighteen months after the death of its longtime dictator, Uzbekistan’s new leadership has been trying to open up one of the world’s most repressive countries by releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression.President Trump’s son-in-law badly wants to overhaul the prison system, while his attorney general bitterly opposes such a move. That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:As a child, Saul Chandler was a promising violinist, playing at Carnegie Hall before the age of 11. But at 16, he had a nervous breakdown and left the world of classical music.Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“No, you’re not. No, you’re not. No, you’re not. No, you’re not.”The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Abraham Lincoln.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Senate returns on Wednesday with its Republican majority down to one seat and buoyed Democrats issuing a full list of demands — such as funding children’s health care and protecting young undocumented immigrants — just weeks before another possible government shutdown.Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate will meet on Wednesday with White House officials to try to come to terms on a deal to raise strict limits on military and domestic spending before Jan. 19, when the current stopgap spending bill expires.If negotiations break down, the government could run out of money — just as President Trump marks his first year in office.Democratic demands are ambitious, topped by a legislative shield for the young undocumented immigrants whose Obama-era protection from deportation was ended by Mr. Trump. They are also pushing for broader intervention in the opioid epidemic, a boost for veterans’ care, disaster relief to hurricane-stricken areas, and financing for the Children’s Health Insurance Program.“Nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to,” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, said in an interview on Tuesday.Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, cast protection for undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children as a “moral issue,” saying that resolving the fate of the so-called Dreamers was a prerequisite for enacting any long-term spending plan.And Mr. Trump is looking for a fight. On Tuesday he goaded Democrats on the immigration issue.“Democrats are doing nothing for DACA — just interested in politics,” the president wrote, using the acronym for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, the Obama-era initiative that he rescinded. “DACA activists and Hispanics will go hard against Dems, will start ‘falling in love’ with Republicans and their President! We are about RESULTS.”Democrats are doing nothing for DACA - just interested in politics. DACA activists and Hispanics will go hard against Dems, will start “falling in love” with Republicans and their President! We are about RESULTS.Democrats are under intense pressure from immigration rights activists to pass longstanding legislation, called the Dream Act, which would shield young undocumented immigrants from deportation and create for them a path to citizenship.More than 14,000 young immigrants have lost their protection under the DACA program since Mr. Trump ended it in September, according to Cristina Jiménez, the executive director of United We Dream, an advocacy group. At the time, Mr. Trump said he was giving Congress six months to draft legislation codifying the program, setting a March deadline. Republicans say there is no urgency.But immigrants’ rights activists say they cannot wait.Immigrants who have lost their protection “can be caught when they are going to school, walking around their neighborhood, going to work,” Ms. Jiménez said. “People are living in daily fear that they could be detained and arrested.”Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has promised a vote if a bipartisan group of senators can reach agreement on a measure that would extend protection from deportation while also beefing up border security, a key demand of Republicans.But Democrats fear that a stand-alone immigration measure could die in the House or be vetoed by the president. Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, said Democrats had more leverage if protections were included in a spending package.“It doesn’t help us to pass the Dream Act and have it be a separate bill that never makes it to the president’s desk or gets vetoed on the president’s desk,’’ he said.The arrival on Wednesday of Doug Jones, the newly elected Democrat of Alabama, leaves Republicans with an exceedingly narrow Senate majority, 51 to 49. The Senate’s major legislative accomplishment of last year, a far-reaching overhaul of the tax code, was muscled through using procedural maneuvers that allowed for a simple majority, party-line victory.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Republicans cannot use such maneuvers on a spending bill, which will require 60 votes for passage. That gives Democrats an advantage, said Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the minority leader.“Republicans know that a government shutdown falls on their back, because they’re in charge of House, Senate and the president, and for the first time they need Democrats to accomplish their goals,” Mr. Schumer said.Wednesday’s meeting is supposed to focus on spending levels, which were fixed in the 2011 legislation that ended another fiscal showdown. It will include Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer, Mr. McConnell and Speaker Paul D. Ryan, as well as Mr. Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, and his liaison to Congress, Marc Short.Both Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi said Democrats would use the session to insist on “parity,” meaning that military and domestic spending must be increased by the same amount. Republicans are far more focused on building up the military.“This idea that we’ve got to increase domestic spending dollar for dollar, it has no basis in reality,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma. “It’s simply a way to try to use the military to blackmail the government to spend more money domestically.”“If they have the votes within their caucus they can do whatever they want,” Ms. Pelosi said, referring to Republicans. “They have the ability to keep the government open, to put forth their valueless priorities. And so why are they accusing us of holding the Defense Department hostage?”The 2018 fiscal year began in October, but lawmakers have struggled to inch forward toward a long-term deal to fund the government. The lack of an agreement on raising the spending limits has essentially stalled the process, and a deal to raise those caps has so far proved elusive for Mr. Trump and congressional leaders.In one case last year, a planned White House meeting fell apart after Mr. Trump took to Twitter to attack Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi, who promptly pulled out of the planned gathering.And in recent weeks, as Republicans raced to pass their sweeping tax overhaul, the atmosphere on Capitol Hill was hardly conducive for a bipartisan deal.Shortly before Christmas, the House and Senate agreed on the stopgap spending bill that is keeping the government open through Jan. 19, punting other fights into the new year.“It never seems to get any easier, right?” Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, said at the time. “January’s going to be a bear.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — With government funding set to expire on Thursday, Congress careened toward another standoff on Monday as House Republicans moved ahead with a temporary spending measure that Senate Democrats have promised to block.At the same time, congressional leaders appeared to be closing in on a deal to raise strict caps on military and domestic spending, a pact that would help pave the way for a long-term spending package.That package, in turn, would end the need for the seemingly endless series of temporary spending measures that have left lawmakers exasperated while repeatedly raising the threat of a government shutdown.House Republicans emerged from a closed-door meeting on Monday night with a plan to pass a temporary spending measure that would fund the government through March 23. The measure would also include full-year funding for the Defense Department — boosting military spending, as President Trump and Republicans are determined to do — and it would include two years of funding for community health centers.But the House’s approach, to combine short-term funding to keep the government open with long-term funding for the military, was long ago rejected by most Senate Democrats, who want to pair an increase in military spending with a similar increase in domestic spending. The measure would need 60 votes to pass the Senate, where Republicans hold only 51 seats.Still, the inclusion of the military funding is expected to secure the votes of reluctant Republicans in the House, including members of the conservative Freedom Caucus, allowing party leaders to push the measure through their chamber even if the vast majority of Democrats oppose it.“It’s a good play call,” said Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Freedom Caucus, who just last week had suggested his caucus was not likely to support another temporary spending measure.On Monday, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, warned Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin against such an approach, saying it amounted to “barreling headfirst into a dead end.”“If he lets the Freedom Caucus be the tail that wags the dog, there’s no way we’ll reach an agreement that can pass the Senate,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor.Lacking the votes to approve the temporary spending measure paired with long-term military funding, the Senate could strip out the military portion and send the measure back to the House.“I think everyone understands that this will probably end up being a Ping-Pong situation, and we’ll see where the ball lands,” said Representative Carlos Curbelo, Republican of Florida.But Mr. Meadows was eager for a fight over the military funding. “That’s going to be up to Democrats to decide whether they want to continue to keep our military men and women hostage,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.To bring an end to last month’s brief shutdown, lawmakers approved a temporary spending bill that keeps the government open through the end of Thursday. Now another stopgap measure is needed. Adding to the tight timeline facing lawmakers, House Democrats are scheduled to hold a retreat in Maryland beginning Wednesday.“Here we are again,” Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, said on the Senate floor on Monday, before complaining about the use of one stopgap bill after another. “Governing is not a merry-go-round,” he said.The stopgap bills have been needed because congressional leaders have yet to reach a deal to raise the caps on military and domestic spending, an impasse that has kept them from negotiating a long-term spending bill. There were signs of hope on Monday that an agreement could be within reach.Once a deal on those spending levels has been reached, lawmakers can put together a long-term funding bill that would stretch for the rest of the fiscal year. In the near future, lawmakers also need to raise the debt limit.Another big question mark is the issue of immigration, which has helped make a deal on the spending caps elusive and played a central role in last month’s shutdown. Lawmakers are looking to take action following Mr. Trump’s decision last year to end an Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, that shields from deportation young immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children.On Monday, Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who has been absent from the Senate while he battles brain cancer, teamed up with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, to offer a narrow immigration bill that would protect the young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, from deportation, while also seeking to strengthen border security.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has promised an open debate on immigration legislation in the Senate if lawmakers do not reach a deal on that subject by Thursday. Mr. Coons told reporters that his bill could serve as the underlying measure to form the foundation of that debate, calling it a “strong starting point.”In addition, the measure does not address the diversity visa lottery, which fosters immigration from countries that are underrepresented and which Mr. Trump wants to abolish, or family-based migration, which would be severely limited under the White House proposal.On Monday, the White House rejected the McCain-Coons plan, just as it turned away a different bipartisan proposal put forth last month by a group of senators led by Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert Pear contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — When the White House wants to gather evangelicals for one of its many issue-specific “listening sessions,” the Rev. Johnnie Moore is often one of the first to hear.“This White House, the front door is open to evangelicals,” said Mr. Moore, who estimates that he has visited at least 20 times since Mr. Trump took office, averaging nearly once every other week. “It hasn’t been evangelicals reaching into the White House. It’s been the White House reaching out to evangelicals. Not a day goes by when there aren’t a dozen evangelical leaders in the White House for something.”This week will be a culmination of those ties. On Thursday, Mr. Moore will join what he calls the “Super Bowl for peacemakers” here: the annual National Prayer Breakfast, where around 3,000 clergy members, politicians and business leaders will eat, network and listen to speeches, including one from President Trump.Many evangelicals did not see such a list of accomplishments as inevitable. Mr. Trump’s formal evangelical advisory board ended with the campaign. But his continued attention to evangelical causes is not a coincidence. Mr. Moore and others have helped remnants of the board remain active in the White House, providing the administration with a constellation of religious figures to lend its platform gravitas among evangelicals.Mr. Moore, a former Liberty University vice president who now lives in California, is one of around a half-dozen original members of the evangelical advisory group who pays regular visits to the White House, which can start with policy briefings from West Wing staff and agency officials and end with impromptu visits to the Oval Office, where Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence will banter, then pray, with them.Jennifer Korn, who as a deputy director of the public liaison office manages contact between the White House and faith groups, sends out invitations to policy briefings and the “listening sessions.”Ms. Korn invites senior West Wing advisers such as Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump and Kellyanne Conway to visit the groups, which range from 20 to 100 guests and are often tied to specific faith-related legislation, executive orders and court appointments. Ms. Trump recently sat in on a meeting with female faith leaders that Mr. Moore and Mr. Jeffress attended.“We are the front door to the White House,” Ms. Korn said, echoing Mr. Moore’s words.Mr. Jeffress, another core member from the campaign board, has been one of Mr. Trump’s most reliable evangelical advocates, regularly appearing with him in Trump Tower in New York and then in the White House.“I can’t look into the president’s heart to know if he really personally believes these positions he’s advocating, or whether he thinks it’s smart politics to embrace them because of the strong evangelical influence in the country,” Mr. Jeffress said in an interview. “But frankly, I don’t care. As a Christian, I’m seeing these policies embraced and enacted, and he’s doing that.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When he is in the Oval Office with faith leaders, Mr. Moore said, they try to “personalize” issues for Mr. Trump, including in a recent discussion on DACA, when the group told the president that he should view the issue as a father and grandfather.Evangelicals voted heavily in Mr. Trump’s favor in the presidential election and, polls show, continue to back him.“Evangelicals were so great to me,” Mr. Trump said last year.Mr. Bernard, who said he had made at least four visits to the White House, saw Mr. Trump as largely indifferent to faith leaders’ to-do list.“There was nothing hidden. He wanted that voting bloc. He wanted their votes,” Mr. Bernard said of Mr. Trump’s engagement with evangelicals during the campaign. “It was transactional. He wanted to do whatever he thought would get those votes.”Mr. Jeffress agreed.“Evangelical support for President Trump has always been based on his policies, not on his personal piety,” he said.Mr. Scott said that the president’s bluster was withheld when he visited with faith leaders, and that Mr. Trump would often apologize if he cursed in front of them.“I find his reverence for clergy very old-school,” Mr. Scott said. “When he’s in the room with clergy, he adopts the position of the lesser. He seems to regard the clergy as the greater.”Mr. Trump has the view of “while you guys were off pursuing a higher calling, I was off building buildings,” Mr. Scott said. “Now it’s time for me to catch up.”This week, as he shuffled from meeting to meeting and dinner to dinner ahead of the prayer breakfast, Mr. Moore said he hoped evangelicals’ new clout in Washington would give them a new face.“People sort of think of evangelicals as these bumpkins. That always drives me crazy,” Mr. Moore said before he dashed out of a downtown Washington cafe. “I think we are far more informed than people give us credit for.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Congress gave swift approval to a $1.3 trillion spending bill that will keep the federal government open through September but broadly defies the Trump administration’s wishes to reshape it.Government funding was set to expire Friday night, but by approving the bill, lawmakers moved to avert what would have been the third shutdown of the year.“Sometimes you save the president from themselves,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma and the chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that funds the health institutes.The spending bill “repudiates the abysmal Trump budget, investing robustly in critical priorities like child care, transportation infrastructure, national security, election protection, medical research, opioid abuse prevention and treatment, veterans’ health services and much more,” said Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee.At the White House, Mr. Trump’s top advisers worked to put the best face on a package they conceded fell short of fully funding his priorities and contained many items he would rather not have accepted.“In order to get the defense spending, primarily, but all the rest of our priorities funded, we had to give away a lot of stuff that we didn’t want to give away” to Democrats, Mick Mulvaney, the White House budget director, told reporters during a briefing where he also highlighted funding in important areas like the military, school safety, border security and combating the opioid crisis.“My job is to get the president’s priorities funded, which this does,” added Mr. Mulvaney, a onetime budget hawk in Congress who routinely voted against large spending packages and sidestepped a question on whether he would have done so for this week’s measure. “The president wants it to pass and wants it to be signed.”Another founding member of the Freedom Caucus, Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio, said the spending bill was “maybe the worst bill I’ve ever seen” and recalled the 2016 election that put Republicans in full control of Washington.“Nov. 8, 2016, I doubt that the voters were saying, ‘Put Republicans in power so that they can pass a bill that continues to fund sanctuary cities, continues to fund Planned Parenthood,’” he said. “Really? Really? That’s what the election was about?”Among other things, the bill includes $1.6 billion for more than 90 miles of physical barriers along the border with Mexico, as well as related technology. But that sum is far short of what Mr. Trump would need to construct the expansive border wall that he promised in his campaign for president.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As November’s midterm elections loom, the spending bill allows lawmakers from both parties to go home and claim success on a wide range of issues, including beefing up the military and providing much-needed funding for priorities like battling the opioid crisis and rebuilding crumbling infrastructure.That additional spending comes at the expense of adding even further to the national debt, which has topped $21 trillion. The growing debt has seemed of minimal concern on Capitol Hill in recent months, where Republicans passed a sweeping tax overhaul late last year that will also result in piling up more debt.To some frustrated lawmakers, the heft of the spending bill was the very problem.“Every Republican would vote against this disgusting pork bill if a Democrat were president,” said Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska. “This spending kegger is a wildly irresponsible use of the taxpayers’ money, and the president should not sign it.”Aside from the bill’s contents, the process for approving it this week left bruised feelings as well, as the bill was not made public until Wednesday night.“In all honesty, none of us know what is actually in this bill,” Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Thursday morning, just hours before House members were asked to vote on it.Though the bill’s eventual approval in the Senate was never in doubt, it was unclear for hours on Thursday whether the chamber would be able to hold a quick vote on the legislation.If a senator insisted, he or she could have blocked the Senate from voting until early Saturday, causing a brief shutdown of the government. In a similar situation last month, Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, did exactly that, raising concerns that he could take another stand this week.Mr. Paul made clear in recent days that he disapproved of both the process for jamming the spending bill through Congress as well as the substance of the legislation.“I’m upset that we’re spending like every Democrat that we criticized,” he said this week. On Thursday, he fumed about the bill in a series of Twitter posts, offering observations as he made his way through the legislation, which he said took more than two hours to print in his office.Late Thursday night, another hiccup emerged: Senator Jim Risch, Republican of Idaho, was unhappy with a measure that had been tucked into the spending bill renaming the White Clouds Wilderness in his state, according to Senate aides.Mr. Risch ultimately allowed the Senate to vote, and he would not speak to reporters afterward. But his protest appeared to be in vain. Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, told reporters that the renaming of the wilderness area would not be undone.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Supported byWASHINGTON — President Trump called on Tuesday for shutting down the federal government if Congress does not crack down on illegal immigration, even as congressional negotiators closed in on a major budget deal that would set spending levels for two years and break the cycle of fiscal crises that has bedeviled the nation’s capital.On Tuesday night, the House approved a stopgap spending bill that would increase military spending through September while keeping funds flowing to the rest of the government for six weeks. The House measure is unlikely to pass the Senate, where Democrats insist that an increase in military funds be matched with additional domestic spending.But the House vote was a first step in what congressional leaders hoped would be a legislative dance that yields a bipartisan spending deal. Mr. Trump’s comments, though combative, had little to do with the delicate negotiations, a fact that appeared to elude Mr. Trump. They did, however, add a note of uncertainty.“I’d love to see a shutdown if we don’t get this stuff taken care of,” Mr. Trump said at a meeting with lawmakers and law enforcement officials to discuss gang violence. “If we have to shut it down because the Democrats don’t want safety,” he added, “then shut it down.”The two-year deal that congressional leaders want would raise statutory spending caps on military and nonmilitary spending through September 2019. That agreement would further balloon the budget deficit, but it would also ease the way to passing a temporary spending measure before the government shuts down on Friday. A longer-term spending deal could follow shortly thereafter.“We are closer to an agreement than we have ever been,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said, referring to the negotiations over raising the spending caps, which were imposed in 2011.Republicans were similarly upbeat. “I’m optimistic that very soon we’ll be able to reach an agreement,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.But if the bipartisan deal falls through, lawmakers have no clear plan to keep the government open past Thursday, with the parties disagreeing over spending priorities and the president lobbing verbal bombs from the White House.“I would shut it down over this issue,” Mr. Trump said as he demanded an immigration deal on his terms. “If we don’t straighten out our border, we don’t have a country.”And on Tuesday, in a striking moment, a lawmaker from the president’s own party, Representative Barbara Comstock of Virginia, pushed back at the White House meeting.“We don’t need a government shutdown on this,” said Ms. Comstock, a top Democratic target in the midterm elections. She represents a moderate district in Northern Virginia, an area that is home to many federal workers.Soon after, Mr. Trump interrupted her. “You can say what you want,” he said. “We’re not getting support from the Democrats on this legislation.”Republicans need to win nine senate races to keep a majority, and Democrats need to win 28 to take it away. Here’s a look at the chances of each outcome.Mr. McConnell pledged that the Senate would turn to immigration if no deal had been reached on that subject by Thursday, when the current government funding measure is set to expire. This time, Senate Democrats have shown no appetite to force a shutdown.But the fate of the young immigrants, known as Dreamers, remains highly uncertain, especially given Mr. Trump’s insistence that Democrats agree to build a wall on the Mexican border and enact other tough immigration policies.The White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, also took a hard line on immigration during a visit to the Capitol on Tuesday.Neither party seemed to have any idea how the immigration debate would play out in the Senate in the days to come. Mr. McConnell has promised a free and open debate, with senators allowed to offer amendments to whatever measure is brought to the floor. But what the starting bill would look like remained a mystery.“That’s the $64,000 question,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate. “Everybody wants to know, and Senator McConnell hasn’t told us.”Mr. McConnell gave little hint of how the debate would proceed.“In the Senate, on those rare occasions when we have these kind of open debates, whoever gets to 60 wins,” he told reporters. “And it’ll be an opportunity for 1,000 flowers to bloom.”But with less than 72 hours remaining to avert a shutdown, congressional Republicans were moving on an entirely different track from the president, and immigration was not part of the equation as the House moved ahead with the stopgap spending bill.The House voted 245 to 182 to approve the bill, with most Democrats voting against it.House Republicans were hoping to pressure Senate Democrats to go along or face harsh political consequences. The bill would keep the government open through March 23.“Quite literally the safety of our service members and the security of our country is at stake,” Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said.“This is not a serious bill,” said Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. “It is nothing more than a political ploy that will place us on the brink of another shutdown.”If a deal on the spending caps is reached, lawmakers could approve legislation that includes that agreement along with a temporary measure to keep the government open. The package could also end up carrying other items as well, including disaster aid in response to last year’s hurricanes and perhaps an increase to the statutory limit on the government’s borrowing authority.Mark Landler and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSJessica Rojas beat poverty to put herself through engineering college, where she collected accolades for academic achievement. After graduating last year, Ms. Rojas, who grew up in Chicago, was hired by a utility company to help modernize the city’s electrical grid.John F. Kelly, the president’s chief of staff, expressed skepticism in July, when he was homeland security secretary, that the program would survive legal scrutiny.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Justice Department would be responsible for defending DACA, but Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a fierce opponent of the program, has not said whether he would, and the president has not said whether he would order Mr. Sessions to do so.Even if he did, it is not clear that the program would survive a court challenge; Republican attorneys general have had success blocking other Obama-era immigration policies.But a decision by the administration not to defend it “would almost certainly spell a death knell for the program,” said Paul Virtue, a partner in the law firm of Mayer Brown who in the 1980s and ’90s was a senior official at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, as the agency was then known.DACA has changed the lives of many beneficiaries, enabling them to qualify for financial aid for college, secure better jobs and open bank accounts. These milestones on the road to self-sufficiency would be jeopardized if DACA is wiped out.“It allowed me to blend into society in every way,” said Monica Lazaro, 24, who was born in Honduras but raised in Miami. DACA made it possible for her to obtain a driver’s license, pay in-state college tuition and live without fear. Ms. Lazaro has been working as a research associate at Nova Southeastern University studying chronic fatigue syndrome, and recently received security clearance to work at the Department of Veterans Affairs hospital in Miami.“Without DACA, I would be fired immediately,” she said.Most crucially, if DACA ends, those who benefit from the program would again be eligible for deportation. And they would not be hard to find — the Department of Homeland Security has DACA and tax documents showing their addresses, which may also be the addresses of their undocumented parents.“If DACA is repealed, they have my most updated tax return and know where I live,” said Jung Woo Kim, a DACA beneficiary who was born in South Korea. He spoke during a rally in Washington on Aug. 15, the fifth anniversary of the beginning of the program.He traveled from Los Angeles to participate in a round-the-clock vigil near the White House that is scheduled to end when Congress is back in session Sept. 5, the deadline for Mr. Trump to respond to the attorneys general.The threat to the program has rekindled an activist spirit that was crucial to its creation. Hundreds of people turned out for the Washington rally, one of several held around the country that day, and more than two dozen people were arrested and accused of blocking sidewalks.Starting around 2010, undocumented young adults campaigned with intensifying vigor, using marches, sit-ins and other methods, as hope faded that Congress would provide them with a path to lawful status. Their leaders ultimately secured meetings with Obama aides and argued that the executive branch could grant undocumented immigrants “deferred action,” a form of prosecutorial discretion that would shield them from deportation and allow them to work, although it would not confer legal residency or citizenship.“DACA gave a group of undocumented people the ability to get in line, and we did, 800,000 of us,” said Gaby Pacheco, 32, one of the leaders of the movement. “The economy didn’t collapse. People didn’t lose their jobs. Quite the contrary: We bought cars, homes, and were able to make better wages.”To qualify, applicants must have entered the United States before age 16, lived in the country continuously since June 2007 and have committed no serious crimes. The protection lasts for two years and can be renewed. The administration has approved tens of thousands of new and renewal requests for DACA deferrals since Mr. Trump took office.Polls show that DACA enjoys overwhelming support among the public. But eliminating it would please many Trump supporters who favor a hard-line stance on illegal immigration and who regard the program as nothing short of an amnesty that the president has no power to grant.“It’s not about the policy; it’s about the Constitution,” said Ken Paxton, the Texas attorney general, who accused Mr. Obama of abusing his power by circumventing Congress to create law. “The fact is, there is no statute authorizing this.”Mr. Paxton was joined by the attorneys general of Arkansas, Alabama, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Nebraska, South Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia, as well as Idaho Gov. C. L. Otter, in a June 29 letter to Mr. Sessions urging the White House to start phasing out DACA by Sept. 5 or face a lawsuit.In 2015, Texas and 25 other states won a federal court ruling blocking the Obama administration from extending deferred action to an estimated five million undocumented parents of children who were citizens or legal residents, as well as to young immigrants who arrived between 2007 and 2010. The ruling was upheld on appeal, and last year, the Supreme Court split 4 to 4, leaving the lower court’s decision in place.If the attorneys general have the same success challenging DACA, it would be up to Congress to give the Dreamers a way to stay in the country legally. Four bills with bipartisan sponsors have been filed that would provide relief to the Dreamers. Those do not appear likely to gain traction in the near future. Nevertheless, there has been talk of a possible large-scale deal in which the Dreamers would be granted protection in exchange for something else, such as more restrictions on legal immigration or tougher measures for illegal immigrants.“These young people grew up in this country and came out of the shadows voluntarily after our government promised not to deport them,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who has introduced legislation with Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, to make DACA permanent. “We’ve since witnessed Dreamers graduate college, start businesses and give back to their communities in myriad ways,” Mr. Durbin said.With the program’s future in the balance, more than 100 law professors recently signed a letter to President Trump arguing that DACA is legal because the president has the power to decide whom to deport, given that the government does not have the resources to target all undocumented immigrants.“The legality of the program is crystal clear,” said Shoba Wadhia, a law professor at Penn State who helped write the letter.Support has also come from a group of Democratic attorneys general led by Xavier Becerra of California, who may try to intervene to defend DACA, as well as from some business leaders.John Rowe, a former chief executive of the energy giant Exelon, who has mentored Ms. Rojas, the DACA recipient, at the Illinois Institute of Technology, said, “The program has been instrumental to advance talented people like Jessica.”Now a co-chairman of the Illinois Business Immigration Coalition, Mr. Rowe organized a letter to Mr. Trump supporting the program that was signed by 132 chief executives from across the country. “To cancel this program is bad economics, bad politics and un-American,” he said in an email.For Ms. Rojas, who was brought to the United States from Mexico when she was 5 and was the first in her family to attend college, it could spell the end of her $65,000-a-year job working for a unit of Exelon and put her entire life in America in jeopardy. “It’s scary,” she said. “Because of DACA, I was able to come this far.”Nathalie Nieves contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES — Safir Wazed, a graduate student born in Bangladesh and raised in California, struggled to focus on his studies. Evelin Salgado, born in Mexico and raised in Tennessee, was ending plans to buy a house and wondering what would happen to her teaching job.And Basilisa Alonso did what thousands of other so-called Dreamers did on Tuesday: She marched in the streets to make her plight known.“I’m willing to take the risk for my family and for all the other DACA people out there,” Ms. Alonso said, referring to Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that she was marching to save. Minutes later, a New York City police officer moved in and placed her hand behind her back with plastic restraints. She was among several dozen people arrested after they blocked an intersection near Trump Tower at various times on Tuesday.About 800,000 undocumented young adults like them had endured weeks of nail-biting tension over the fate of DACA, which for the last five years has enabled them to legally live and work in the United States.“I have been blessed with all the opportunities that DACA brought to my life,” said Ms. Salgado, 23, who is now a teacher and was the first person in her family to graduate from college.Since receiving DACA status, Mr. Wazed, 27, has held a job and bought a car and a condominium. He is now a graduate student at the University of Southern California. “Am I supposed to plan to reset my life in six months?” he asked.“This isn’t over,” Mr. Wazed said, “and we’re not going to be pushed out of our country in six months.”About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Indeed, the decision has immediately reawakened a protest movement that helped lead to the program’s creation.About a decade ago, leaders of undocumented young immigrants used activities like sit-ins and demonstrations to share their cause with the American public, until they reached the White House. Those efforts were repeated Tuesday in cities across the country, from New York to Washington to Denver to Los Angeles, now greatly amplified by social media and institutions — corporate boardrooms, colleges and religious organizations — that touch virtually all corners of society.The broad reaction illustrated not only how successful the Dreamers and their advocates had been in persuading the Obama administration to create the program, but how, after five years of living legally in the United States, they had become fully integrated into American colleges, workplaces and civic life. DACA gave immigrants who had been brought to the country illegally as children a reprieve from deportation and a work permit if they met certain conditions.So with the administration’s decision looming, many Dreamers recently began contemplating a double loss, of their legal protection and the lives and careers they had begun with that protection.Last week, amid the uncertainty over the program, Ms. Salgado told her real estate agent that she had to scrap plans to buy a four-bedroom house in Fairview, Tenn., for her parents, with whom she lives.In New York, during the march down Fifth Avenue, some stopped and watched on their smartphones as Mr. Sessions made the news official. “We pay our taxes, follow the laws,” said Dayana Arrue, 22, as she sobbed beneath her Ray-Ban sunglasses. She came from El Salvador when she was 6, is now a senior at Rutgers University, and was planning to go to graduate school for geoscience engineering. “All that talent that the U.S. is missing out on, it’s unbelievable,” she said. “It kind of all ends.”Protests continued throughout the day, and the New York Police Department said it had arrested more than 45 people, including some with DACA status. But they would not be fingerprinted if they followed court instructions, according to the police commissioner, James P. O’Neill.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That could protect them from being discovered by federal immigration authorities. Still, Mayor Bill de Blasio cautioned them during a news conference: “Obviously if someone is a DACA recipient, I would urge them to be careful about anything like civil disobedience.”On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump pledged to “immediately terminate” the program. Once elected, he softened his stance, praising Dreamers as “absolutely incredible kids” who deserve compassion.Feeling reassured, tens of thousands of young immigrants filed new or renewal applications. But the program’s fate became uncertain after a group of conservative state attorneys general, led by Ken Paxton of Texas, threatened to sue the administration unless it began to dismantle the program by Tuesday.Most DACA beneficiaries live in one of five states — California, Florida, Illinois, New York or Texas — and the largest share are from Mexico or Central America. But thousands hail from South Korea, the Philippines or India, among many other countries, and arrived with visas that their families overstayed.“In the coming days, weeks and months, many Americans will find out — for the first time — that they know someone with DACA,” said Katharine Gin, executive director of Educators for Fair Consideration, a nonprofit in San Francisco that works with Dreamers. “Maybe it’s their child’s teacher, or the nurse who takes care of their mother, or the young person they always sit next to at church.”Still, some Dreamers noted there could be a silver lining in Mr. Trump’s decision. The program had always been on infirm legal footing, as conservatives argued that former President Barack Obama did not have the power to create it without Congress. With the president now urging Congress to do something to replace DACA, it was not impossible to dream that a permanent solution was at hand.“Ending DACA may be the only solution to Congress acting rapidly,” said Monica Lazaro, a DACA recipient in Miami who is set to start a research job at a veterans’ hospital later this month. “We will push Congress, and especially Paul Ryan. This is not the end, it is just the beginning.”As Mr. Sessions spoke, Marcela Zhou, a Dreamer and third-year medical student at the University of California, Los Angeles, paused between patients she was seeing at a clinic to watch the announcement.“I have been anticipating this moment, but it is hard to fully mentally prepare for it,” Ms. Zhou said.She added hopefully: “The future remains uncertain, but I am confident I will become a doctor one day. The road may be longer and bumpier, but we will get there.”Reporting was contributed by Liz Robbins, Jeffrey C. Mays, Luis Ferré and Laurie Goodstein from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump’s incendiary words about immigration have dampened the prospects that a broad spending and immigration deal can be reached by the end of the week, raising the possibility of a government shutdown with unknown political consequences for lawmakers in both parties.Democrats facing re-election in states that Mr. Trump carried in 2016 fear that a government funding crisis, precipitated by an immigration showdown, could imperil their campaigns. And they are growing increasingly uneasy that liberal colleagues eyeing White House bids are demanding that any spending bill beyond a stopgap measure that expires on Jan. 19 include protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.“Welcome to our world,” said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who is running for re-election in a state that Mr. Trump carried by 19 percentage points.“We’ve got people running for president all trying to find their base, and then you’ve got people from Trump states that are trying to continue to legislate the way we always have — by negotiation,” Ms. McCaskill said. “And never the twain shall meet.”But Republicans face their own uncertainties. With their party controlling the White House and both chambers of Congress, they could receive most of the blame for a shutdown, even if Senate Democrats effectively block a spending plan that does not extend the immigrant protections of an Obama-era program known as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.“To believe that you can successfully blame Democrats for a shutdown over the DACA debate is naïve,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.The president on Monday attacked Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat who is leading the immigration talks for his party and attended the White House meeting, as having “totally misrepresented” Mr. Trump’s comments in his public recounting of them. And two Senate Republicans, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia, have raised questions over whether the term was even used, with Mr. Perdue flatly denying it had.Mr. Graham, who admonished Mr. Trump in the meeting, has called Mr. Durbin’s account basically accurate. He took an unmistakable swipe on Monday at Mr. Perdue and Mr. Cotton.“Since the meeting I don’t remember things differently,” Mr. Graham said. “I know what I heard, and I know what I said to the president.”Ten Democratic senators are on the ballot this November in states that are heavily white, have little sympathy for undocumented immigrants and that Mr. Trump won. Many of these lawmakers have no desire to force a government shutdown over an immigration issue. Some of the party’s most at-risk seats are in Missouri, Indiana, West Virginia and North Dakota.If they side with Senate Republicans, Congress could pass yet another short-term spending bill by Friday that would end the shutdown threat for now as negotiations continue.But some Democrats considering presidential runs, such as Senators Kamala Harris of California, Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, are pressing Democrats to oppose any government-funding bill — no matter how short-term — that does not also protect the approximately 800,000 young immigrants brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers. Mr. Trump rescinded the program in September and gave Congress six months to enshrine its protections into law.Mr. Cotton, an immigration hard-liner, suggested that these Democrats will pay a price if their brinkmanship goes too far and they are seen as shutting down the government if they cannot offer amnesty for illegal immigrants.What most alarms congressional negotiators is that political imperatives appear to have overtaken the immigration policy deliberations in the still-unfolding debate over Mr. Trump’s vulgar description in last Thursday’s meeting of some nations.Two of the Republicans involved in the discussions complained on Monday that the days-long controversy over Mr. Trump’s comment had imperiled hopes for an agreement.“I told him that the President Trump that showed up Tuesday is the one that can lead the country on multiple levels,” Mr. Graham said. “I think the president realizes that it takes a bipartisan solution. But you’re not going to get a deal by tweeting, you’re going to get one by talking.”Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, suggested that the leaks about Mr. Trump’s comments had been as detrimental as the words themselves to the cause of reaching an accord on immigration.“You have to be able to sit down and have real tough, serious conversations,” said Mr. Diaz-Balart. “And those conversations have to be kept within the folks who are negotiating.”Mr. Trump seemed to underscore Mr. Diaz-Balart’s remark when he took to Twitter on Monday to mock Mr. Durbin as “Dicky Durbin.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The president also pressed a talking point that Republicans are sure to use as the government nears its funding deadline: That the issue of the week is not as much about immigration as the continued funding of the military.Senator Dicky Durbin totally misrepresented what was said at the DACA meeting. Deals can’t get made when there is no trust! Durbin blew DACA and is hurting our Military.Both Mr. Graham and Mr. Diaz-Balart were present when Mr. Trump made the disparaging remarks about African nations, which the president now denies. But the two lawmakers were reluctant to discuss the matter, not wanting to further complicate hopes for reaching an agreement.White House officials said they remain hopeful that an immigration deal can be reached with Democrats despite what Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, called “all the noise.”“We feel like there’s still a deal to be made there,” Mr. Short said on Monday. “Things we are asking for are common sense.”Mr. Short said that the proposal offered by Mr. Graham and Mr. Durbin, which was summarily rejected by Mr. Trump during the contentious Oval Office meeting last week, remains the most likely basis for compromise as lawmakers and the White House attempt to find common ground.“It is on the table as a starting point for the congressional conversations,” Mr. Short said. He said those negotiations will begin again in earnest on Tuesday, hosted by Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, who dined with the president at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach on Sunday night.“I know what happened. I stand behind every word I said,” he said, adding that he is focused on the immigration legislation “full time.”A White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity suggested on Monday that Mr. Trump had said “shithouse countries,” not “shithole countries.” Mr. Durbin expressed disbelief that anyone would see a substantive difference between the terms.“I stick with my original interpretation. I am stunned that this is their defense,” he said.Two Republican officials independently said on Monday that Mr. Trump had said the original phrase.Mr. Short said the current proposal devised by Mr. Graham and Mr. Durbin did not do enough to satisfy the president’s demands for enhanced border security. And, he said, it failed to broadly end what Republicans call “chain migration,” a process by which American citizens can eventually bring their extended families into the United States over a period of many years.Mr. Short argued that the current proposal would actually increase the ability of DACA recipients to bring some family members into the country since, under their current legal status, they are barred from sponsoring entry for anyone else.“Their proposal only expands chain migration for that group,” he said.Under pressure from immigrant rights activists, Democrats are likely to resist broader efforts to limit immigrants from sponsoring their family members, an idea that Democrats view favorably as “family reunification” — a part of American immigration law for decades.Mr. Short also urged Democrats to put off efforts to address immigrants from Haiti, Honduras, El Salvador and other countries who have been in the United States under a program called Temporary Protected Status. The Graham-Durbin plan called for issuing new visas for those immigrants after the Trump administration said they would end T.P.S. status for people from those countries.“I don’t think we envision it as part of this deal,” Mr. Short said of the T.P.S. program. “That expands it into comprehensive immigration reform.”For Democratic lawmakers, the pressure from their left flank to demand relief for the Dreamers is only rising.“We are going to be telling Democrats the following: If you vote for a spending bill that does not include relief for Dreamers, you are voting for funds that will be used to deport Dreamers,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrants rights group.But the wisdom of eventually forcing a shutdown to shield the migrants is dividing the party.Some Democratic strategists, such as former Representative Steve Israel of New York, said Democrats should seize their leverage now that Republicans already have enough political headaches, namely the president’s historic unpopularity.“They absolutely have the upper hand as a matter of policy and as also as a matter of politics,” said Mr. Israel. “Republicans cannot afford to shut down the government in one of the roughest midterm environments they’ve ever had. Democrats have the upper hand and they should play the upper hand.”Yet to other Democrats, forcing a government shutdown in the same fashion that congressional Republicans did in President Barack Obama’s second term would be to take a considerable political risk, the legislative equivalent of the nuclear option.“It looks like a big Washington mess to people,” said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s former top strategist. “Dealing with Trump is obviously a very, very difficult issue not just for Democrats but for Republicans because he is so mercurial and unreliable. The question is: Have you reached that point now where you want to employ what is the most explosive tool in your toolbox?”Or as Ms. McCaskill put it: “I am not interested in drawing a line in sand as negotiations continue because I think that’s how negotiations get blown up.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Congress approved a two-week stopgap measure on Thursday that will avoid a government shutdown this weekend, pushing until just before Christmas a broader possible showdown over spending priorities, immigration and health care.The measure, which the House and Senate passed in quick succession, would fund the government through Dec. 22. President Trump is expected to sign it.“Along with enacting historic tax reform, we’ll be working together in the next two weeks to find a long-term solution to our funding needs while maintaining fiscal discipline,” said Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.The approval came as congressional leaders from both parties met with Mr. Trump at the White House to talk about the thicket of issues facing lawmakers as the end of the year approaches.In negotiations this month, Democrats plan to press to shield from deportation undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has pledged to support the passage of bipartisan legislation intended to stabilize health insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.Lawmakers also want to provide tens of billions of dollars in response to this year’s hurricanes and wildfires, and they need to provide funds for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, whose financing lapsed at the end of September.All of these issues loom as Republicans move ahead with their effort to pass an ambitious rewrite of the tax code, which would amount to their first major legislative achievement of Mr. Trump’s presidency.This time, in brief remarks from the Oval Office, Mr. Trump and the Democratic leaders struck a hopeful tone.“We’re all here as a very friendly, well-unified group,” Mr. Trump said.“We’re here in the spirit of ‘let’s get it done,’” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader in the Senate.“We are here to make progress,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader in the House, pointing to issues like health insurance for children, opioids and helping veterans.Afterward, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, characterized the session as constructive, as did congressional leaders from both parties.Government funding is set to expire at the end of Friday, and the stopgap measure would provide more time for negotiations between Republicans and Democrats on overall spending levels for the 2018 fiscal year.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Party leaders are in talks to raise strict spending caps that were imposed in 2011, with the Trump administration and Republicans in Congress particularly eager to raise the limit on military spending. Democrats are insisting that the limit on nondefense spending be increased by the same amount.After a deal is reached, the two parties can negotiate a long-term spending package.“The reality is that we’re running into a deadline this week, and this resolution is our best and only option at this time,” said Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, Republican of New Jersey and the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.“This bill kicks the can down the road for two weeks just so Republicans can continue focusing on the greatest tax scam in history,” said Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California.Given the calendar and the amount of time needed to complete a broad spending package, another stopgap spending measure will be needed just before Christmas, setting up another possibility of a shutdown.That legislation could wind up including other items, such as immigration and health care measures.Democrats are determined to secure a deal to protect young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers after Mr. Trump decided to end the program that shields them from deportation, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.Republican leaders have displayed less urgency to agree on legislation, noting that Mr. Trump had given Congress until March to find a solution.Ms. Sanders said that at the White House meeting on Thursday, Mr. Trump, Mr. Ryan and Mr. McConnell “stressed that negotiations on immigration should be held separately on a different track, and not as part of the government funding bill.”But Democrats want to use the negotiations this month to reach an agreement on the issue, and they have the power to block a spending measure in the Senate. Democratic votes could also be needed to pass a spending measure in the House if enough Republicans break ranks.Some Republicans share the Democrats’ sense of urgency, as well. In a letter to Mr. Ryan this week, more than 30 House Republicans expressed support for passing a legislative solution on DACA by the year’s end.“Reaching across the aisle to protect DACA recipients before the holidays is the right thing to do,” they wrote.Hours before the vote on the stopgap measure on Thursday, Ms. Pelosi held back from threatening to shut down the government over the issue, telling reporters, “Democrats are not willing to shut government down.”But she also made clear that she wished to see a swift resolution. “We will not leave here without a DACA fix,” she said.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Congress brought an end to a three-day government shutdown on Monday as Senate Democrats buckled under pressure to adopt a short-term spending bill to fund government operations without first addressing the fate of young undocumented immigrants.The House quickly approved the measure — which will fund the government through Feb. 8 and extend funding for the popular Children’s Health Insurance Program for six years — and President Trump signed it on Monday night.The agreement also revealed fissures among Democrats, with about one-third of the party’s members in the Senate and a majority in the House voting against it.But a key part of the deal, a pledge by Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, to allow an immigration vote in the coming weeks, sets the stage for a battle over the so-called Dreamers, young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children.Lawmakers in the House and Senate are offering drastically different visions of how to resolve their fate. But those on both sides of the debate, as well as advocates for immigrants’ rights, said that ultimately Mr. Trump would need to get involved for the immigration dispute to be settled.Mr. Trump’s intentions were hard to discern, even as he took time to jab at the Democrats.The message continued: “Now I want a big win for everyone, including Republicans, Democrats and DACA,” referring to the Dreamers, “but especially for our Great Military and Border Security. Should be able to get there. See you at the negotiating table!”The measure also shored up the Children’s Health Insurance Program, known as CHIP, which insures nearly nine million children. States had warned that they were on the verge of having to end coverage after Congress allowed funding for the program, which had been created and sustained for two decades with bipartisan support, to expire in September.An apparent turning point came when Mr. McConnell took the Senate floor on Monday morning to announce that he would ensure a “level playing field” on immigration — language that some Democrats interpreted as going further than he had before. Mr. McConnell said he would have the Senate take up immigration legislation by mid-February if the issue had not been resolved by then.“I sat on the floor and listened to him very intently, somewhat holding my breath,” said Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, who caucuses with the Democrats. “I think the majority leader has made a public commitment that it would be very hard for him not to meet.”But Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, was unconvinced, and voted against the bill. She suggested that she did not trust Mr. McConnell.“I refuse to put the lives of nearly 700,000 young people in the hands of someone who has repeatedly gone back on his word,” she said.Immigrants’ rights activists were crushed.“Last week, I was moved to tears of joy when Democrats stood up and fought for progressive values and for Dreamers,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrants’ rights group. “Today, I am moved to tears of disappointment and anger that Democrats blinked.”But the president has demanded that border security — including money for the “big, beautiful wall” he has promised at the southern border with Mexico — be included in any package. Mr. Trump also wants limits on what critics call “chain migration,” in which immigrants can sponsor their relatives, and an end to the diversity visa lottery, which fosters immigration from countries that are underrepresented.A bipartisan group of six senators, led by Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has proposed the backbone of an immigration deal that backers hope could garner 60 votes, enough to break a filibuster.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Mr. Trump has rejected that plan. And the measure is almost certainly a nonstarter in the House, where Speaker Paul D. Ryan has promised a vote on a conservative immigration measure championed by the chairmen of the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, if it has the support to pass.“If we are hoping that Paul Ryan is going to have courage and that the House Republicans are going to be fair and decent and that a bill could emerge, we’re smoking something,” Mr. Sharry said.Monday’s Senate vote exposed a rift between moderate Democrats who are up for re-election this year in states won by Mr. Trump and their more liberal counterparts.One of those Trump-state Democrats, Senator Bill Nelson of Florida, characterized the vote as a “big win for the Dreamers,” adding that if the Senate passes a measure with more than 60 votes, it would “put a lot of pressure” on the House to act.But more liberal Democrats, including Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, who voted against the spending measure, disagreed.“The lesson to me is that a promise here is far less meaningful when there is no involvement by the House, not to mention the White House,” he said, adding that he has “no confidence, zero, that Paul Ryan will bring a measure to the floor, in fact on the contrary.”Mr. Graham said it was critical that the Senate’s eventual immigration bill have the support of a broad bipartisan majority of perhaps 70 senators.“A partisan product doesn’t get you to where you want to go,” he said. “If you’re going to make the play of trying to pick off a handful of the other side, it’s going to crash and burn.”According to one person familiar with that day’s discussion, Mr. Schumer agreed to more military spending and discussed fully funding the president’s request for a border wall in exchange for an agreement from the president to support legalizing the Dreamers.Late that night, an overwhelming majority of Democrats, joined by a handful of Republicans, voted to block consideration of a spending bill very much like the measure that passed Monday. The only difference is that the initial bill would have funded the government for four weeks, not three.A round of partisan finger-pointing ensued, with Democrats calling the impasse the “Trump Shutdown” and Republicans branding it the “Schumer Shutdown.”At the White House on Monday, Mr. Trump’s press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, insisted that Monday’s deal was not “drastically different” than what was discussed on Friday between the president and Mr. Schumer.Despite what was characterized by both parties as Mr. Trump’s invisibility this weekend, Ms. Sanders insisted that he was responsible for making a deal happen.“What the president did clearly worked,” she said, adding, “The president stayed firm, Republicans stayed firm, and Democrats, I think, realized that they had to move past that piece of legislation” to discuss immigration going forward.But Ms. Sanders declined to clarify precisely what the parameters of an immigration deal would look like. That worried Democrats like Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey.“The problem with all of this is the problem it’s been from the beginning,” Mr. Menendez said. “You got no guarantees from the House. You got no guarantees from the president. So you have two-thirds of the equation that are just not there.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The decision by Senate Democrats to end the government shutdown on Monday in exchange for a promised immigration vote enraged liberals, who accused the lawmakers of betrayal and threatened to mount primaries against some of the Democrats who voted yes.Regardless of what happens in the Senate, progressive and immigrant advocacy groups said House Republican leaders will never take up a bill that would offer legal status to young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children without excruciating concessions on other immigration issues. They accused Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and moderate Democratic senators of capitulating to protect senators up for re-election in November in Republican-leaning states.“They blinked because they’ll always put the party and the success of the party first,” said Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez of Illinois, one of the leading Democratic advocates for immigrants, complaining that Hispanics got short shrift. “It’s the one word they know in Spanish: mañana.”By noon, their own ostensible allies in Congress had buckled.“The grass-roots are rightly furious with a slew of elected Democrats,” said Ben Wikler, the Washington director of MoveOn.org. “In the Obama years, Republicans learned to be more afraid of primary challenges than general elections. But Democrats are still operating as though the Tea Party is more powerful than The Resistance.”The anger on the left was reminiscent of conservative unrest that fueled primary race challenges against sitting Republican senators accused of appeasing an opposition president, Barack Obama, and his congressional allies.There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.Mr. Schumer, determined to keep the fissures in his party coalition muted, used a meeting of Senate Democrats before the vote to urge the liberals in his caucus not to criticize those voting to reopen the government, according to one senator who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a private meeting.And for the most part, the liberal senators who opposed the agreement held their fire. Democrats have largely avoided the internal insurrections that upended Republicans over the past decade. Mr. Schumer is not a figure of derision on the left as Mr. McConnell is on the right.And Senate Democrats have crushed most primary election challenges easily. Senate leaders have intervened freely in a number of 2018 races — in states like Arizona and Tennessee — to anoint more moderate standard-bearers.Former Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said Democrats from the more rural states that make up much of the 2018 map would prefer to battle over issues other than immigration. The Obama-era program that protected young undocumented immigrants — Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA — is an important issue, he said, but “it isn’t the bread and butter of successful Democrat politics.”“Our major issues are jobs, Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, Social Security, infrastructure, supporting domestic programs, clean air, safe drinking water,” Mr. Dorgan said, adding of his conservative-state brethren, “While those Democrats do strongly support DACA, I’m sure they would prefer to be discussing different issues.”But the patience of the left may be running thin. By appearing to retreat on Monday, Democrats have stirred new talk on the left about challenging incumbents who had previously given little thought to their own nominations.Faiz Shakir, the political director of the American Civil Liberties Union and an adviser to former Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said the group and its allies were actively exploring places to intervene in primary elections.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Shakir said of some Democrats that it is an “open question, still, whether they’re going to fight for Dreamers.”Right now, only one Democratic senator faces a serious primary challenge: Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, who voted against the government-funding deal and complained privately that she and most of her colleagues had been asked to vote on Friday against a nearly identical measure to keep the government open.Ms. Feinstein has tacked to the left since Kevin de Léon, the president of the California State Senate, announced his challenge to her in October.Mr. de Léon said Monday that Democrats had made a grave mistake striking “another fingers-crossed bargain with Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell.”“Once again, the party’s leaders in Washington have capitulated, compromised and redrawn a line in the sand even further away from justice,” he said.One House Democrat is already under fire for not taking a stronger stance on behalf of immigrants: Representative Daniel Lipinski of Illinois, a moderate Democrat from Chicago who is facing a primary race challenger, Marie Newman, in March.The chances of a successful primary election challenge in the Senate are far more remote. Many of the Democrats facing re-election in November hail from states that Mr. Trump carried and are more concerned about well-funded Republican opponents than liberal challengers.Of the 10 Democrats who gathered outside the Senate chamber after the vote to crow about their bipartisan agreement, six are on the ballot this year.“If you want results, you have to compromise, and if you’re unwilling to compromise, you won’t get results,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota. “You maybe get a political issue, but you won’t get results. And I didn’t come here to do politics.”Progressives, however, are already eyeing one of the Democrats who pushed for a compromise: Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. On a conference call convened Sunday night by liberal groups, there was notable anger toward Ms. Klobuchar, according to two participants.Ms. Klobuchar, however, illustrates why the Democratic base may find it difficult to inflict payback: She is broadly popular with liberals in Minnesota, and the shutdown fight has come late enough in the congressional calendar to leave any would-be challenger with little time to prepare.“I have been working hard for the people of Minnesota, and I think the people of Minnesota understand that, including in my party,” Ms. Klobuchar said.Jonathan Martin reported from Washington, and Alexander Burns from New York. Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Liberal activists, eager for Democrats to assert what power they have left in Congress, are pressing Democratic leaders to shut down the government this Christmas if Republicans do not agree to shield young undocumented immigrants from deportation.But moderate Democrats fear the political blowback of a holiday crisis, and equivocal statements by top Democratic leaders are giving the left reason to believe that the party will lend enough votes to keep the government open past Dec. 22, when the current spending bill is set to expire.That has turned part of the liberal “resistance” — honed in the Trump era to target Republicans — against Democratic leaders.“They have to be willing to go all the way to government shutdown,” said Tereza Lee, who helped stage a sit-in on Tuesday at Senator Chuck Schumer’s office in New York City demanding that he win protection for young undocumented immigrants threatened with deportation. “This is the only way. We can’t be weak.”Frustrated immigration activists gathered at least three times this week at Mr. Schumer’s New York City office to demand that the Democratic senator publicly say that he would be willing to shut down the government if Republicans do not include an immigration measure in the end-of-the-year spending bill.Each effort brought a short-term hit to Republican popularity, but political repercussions had long faded by the time the elections of 2012, 2014 and 2016 rolled round.Now Democrats hold the whip, since no broad spending bill can clear Congress without their votes. But Mr. Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, have not said overtly that they are willing to let funding lapse after Dec. 22.Instead, Democratic aides say, bipartisan negotiations in the Senate should be allowed to progress without Democrats making threats to Republicans that may aggravate them. Mr. Schumer said the topic of immigration came up this week when he, Ms. Pelosi, Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, met with President Trump at the White House.But immigration advocates want a harder line.“People are actually losing their protection from deportation, losing their ability to work, losing their ability to support their families,” said Nayim Islam, an immigrant rights organizer for Desis Rising Up & Moving, a group seeking broad legislation that protects young immigrants, called the Dream Act. “The reality of what a government shutdown would mean for certain folks and their means of income or for jobs, that is already a reality for a lot of undocumented immigrants.”Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law Center, said that lawmakers had to make sure they “no longer play with the lives of young immigrants,” but added that she felt confident that an immigration deal would be reached.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“They have made a commitment to the immigrant rights movement and most importantly, they have made a commitment to Dreamers themselves that they will get this done by the end of the year,” she said of Democrats. “If the way to fulfill this commitment is to withhold their votes, that is what we are expecting them to do.”Ms. Hincapié and others say they plan to hammer that message home in protests and coordinated calls to lawmakers.Erika Andiola, 30, an undocumented immigrant who is organizing protests in Washington, said she was tired of Democrats using immigration to “pander” to communities without following through.“This is a time for them to show up,” she said. “Especially Schumer because he has a lot more leverage in the Senate to say, ‘This is on the top of my agenda, and I’m going to move my entire caucus to vote no on the spending bill if the Dream Act is not on there.’ But we have not been able to get him to even acknowledge that or say that. So it’s absolutely frustrating for a lot of us.”Then in 2013, language allowing Dreamers to stay in the country and work or attend school was included in a broader immigration package that passed the Senate with 68 votes — then failed in the House.Over the next two weeks, Democrats do have significant leverage. House Republicans managed to approve a stopgap spending measure on Thursday without needing any Democratic votes for passage. But in the Senate, where Republicans hold 52 seats, Democrats could filibuster the next spending measure, an action that would take 60 votes to overcome.So far, several liberal senators have vowed not to vote for a spending measure without a deal to protect Dreamers, including Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, as well as Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat and the original author of the Dream Act.But others are likely to be more reluctant, especially more moderate Democrats up for re-election next year, like Joe Manchin III of West Virginia.“Senator Manchin believes that the Senate should stay here and finish their work,” his spokesman, Jonathan Kott, said on Friday. “There is no reason for us to shut down the government.”At a news conference on Thursday, Ms. Pelosi indicated the delicate position that Democratic leaders find themselves in.Democrats insist that Republicans, not their party, would be responsible for any shutdown. Yet they also want to show a commitment to addressing the DACA issue.“Democrats are not willing to shut government down,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters, while also saying, “We will not leave here without a DACA fix.”Indivisible, a liberal activist organization, is asking its local chapters to push Democratic members of Congress to publicly commit to voting against the spending measure this month if no deal is reached over DACA, said Angel Padilla, the policy director for the group.“Even though Democrats love to take pictures with Dreamers and love to give big speeches about the Dream Act, when it comes down to their vote, they’re not willing to throw down for the Dream Act,” he said.See More »Go to Home Page »As the president of a steel company, David Zalesne said some of the Trump administration’s economic policies are probably going to be good for his industry. President Trump has vowed to bolster American manufacturing — and domestic steel production in particular.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump is expected to announce his plan for the program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. While he may decide to give Congress time to come up with a permanent resolution, immigration advocates and economists warned that the possible demise of DACA could lead to the deportation of as many as 800,000 people, many of whom are working legally in industries across the United States.“Why would you take people out of the work force, who are part of the system and paying taxes?” asked Mr. Zalesne, president of Owen Steel in Columbia, S.C.Key Republicans have signaled that they want to find a way to preserve some part of the program, which President Barack Obama put in place in 2012. But finding a permanent fix has eluded Congress.Last week and over the weekend, American business leaders, including Mr. Zalesne, stepped into the political fray and urged Mr. Trump to extend DACA. More than 400 of them signed a letter to the president and congressional leaders, warning that such immigrants — brought to the United States as children and known as “Dreamers” — are vital to the economy.But executives at big companies outside of the tech sector spoke up, too. The chairman and chief executive of Best Buy, Hubert Joly, wrote on the company’s blog on Friday, “There are hundreds of thousands of young men and women whose futures are at stake.”On DACA, the executives are taking a pragmatic approach. While many immigration advocates have focused on humanitarian issues, the executives focused on the economic toll.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.According the letter from the executives, 65 percent of Dreamers have bought a car and 16 percent have purchased their own home. This economic activity, they argue, would be eliminated if the Dreamers were deported.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, estimates that five years after a repeal of DACA, the nation’s gross domestic product would be $105 billion less than it would be if the program stays in place.“The Dreamers are on track to be a highly educated group, and losing them will be a significant blow to businesses already struggling to find educated and skilled young workers,” Mr. Zandi wrote in an email on Monday.Mr. Zalesne said he was not sure how many, if any, of the 295 workers at his company’s facilities, which fabricate steel for projects like the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, are protected by DACA.He decided to take a stand, he said, not only because of the economic implications, but also because he could not ignore the human toll that deportation would take on people who have been working and going to school legally and have mostly known only one country — the United States.“They have been trying to do the right thing,” he said.Vindu Goel contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Some lawmakers specifically criticized the president, while others countered the sentiment of his remarks.The remaining Republican senators and key House members have made no known public statements responding to the comments. The New York Times has reached out to each of their offices.WASHINGTON — Senators failed on Sunday to reach an agreement to end the government shutdown, ensuring that hundreds of thousands of federal employees would be furloughed Monday morning even as the outlines of a potential compromise came into focus.For much of the day, feverish work by a bipartisan group of senators offered a reason for cautious optimism that a deal could be reached soon. By Sunday night, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, moved to delay until noon Monday a procedural vote on a temporary spending bill — a signal that talks were progressing.In a gesture to lawmakers seeking assurances that the Senate will address the fate of hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants, Mr. McConnell said he intended to move ahead with immigration legislation next month if the issue had not been resolved by then.But the deep divisions between the parties were evident as senators remained unable to reach a compromise even as the crisis was poised to deepen with the beginning of the workweek.Senate Democrats gave no immediate sign that they would get on board with the temporary spending bill, leaving open the possibility of another failed vote on Monday that could further deepen the partisan divide three days into the shutdown. Any deal would most likely need the support of around a dozen Senate Democrats, since the chamber’s procedural rules require 60 votes.“We have yet to reach an agreement on a path forward that would be acceptable for both sides,” the Democratic leader, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, said after Mr. McConnell’s remarks.We would like to hear from federal employees. Times reporters may contact you to hear more about your story.Required fields are marked with an asterisk.First and last preferred, please.City and state, please.We will not publish your contact information. A Times reporter or editor might contact you to hear more about your story.Thank you for your submission.The group was discussing a plan in which the government would stay open through early February, to be coupled with a promise that the Senate would tackle the issue of immigration in the coming weeks.“There are, I think, people from both parties of good will who want to have a framework for us to move forward to address all of these issues,” Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, said Sunday evening. “But at this point, it is in the hands of leadership, and I really hope they are going to find a way forward.”For as long as the government is closed, the White House has said it will not entertain demands on immigration. Senators in the bipartisan group proceeded anyway in discussing a compromise in which there would be some kind of promise that the Senate would address the issue in the coming weeks.“We want to see a commitment to take up immigration,” said Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, “with a belief that we’ll get to a good result for Dreamers.”Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said it was best for Mr. Trump to let the Senate work out its own solution.“I just don’t think it helps for him to be involved at all right now,” he said.Hundreds of thousands of federal workers would be furloughed, affecting a wide range of government programs.The talk of promised action on immigration also raised other questions, including whether a pledge from Mr. McConnell like the one he offered on Sunday could be a significant enough assurance for Senate Democrats who are worried about the fate of the Dreamers. For instance, a promise of a Senate vote on a stand-alone immigration bill would still leave the possibility that the measure would die in the House, potentially leaving the DACA issue unresolved.In a reflection of the frustration on both sides, Mr. Trump, who has largely stayed out of negotiations since the government shut down early Saturday, began the day by advising Senate Republicans to use the so-called nuclear option to change Senate rules and cut Democrats out of the process if necessary.“If stalemate continues, Republicans should go to 51% (Nuclear Option) and vote on real, long term budget, no C.R.’s!” he wrote on Twitter, adding an attack on Democrats.Great to see how hard Republicans are fighting for our Military and Safety at the Border. The Dems just want illegal immigrants to pour into our nation unchecked. If stalemate continues, Republicans should go to 51% (Nuclear Option) and vote on real, long term budget, no C.R.’s!Leaders from both parties quickly dismissed the idea, but Democrats wasted no time in pointing the finger back at Mr. Trump.Mr. Schumer’s 11th-hour negotiations with Mr. Trump on Friday have proved to be a focal point for both parties as they have cast blame. On Sunday, Mr. Schumer said that during their meeting at the White House, Mr. Trump had “picked a number” that he wanted to fund a border wall and that Mr. Schumer had accepted in exchange for protections for Dreamers. Hours later, he said, Mr. Trump walked away from a tentative agreement.“I essentially agreed to give the president something he has said he wants, in exchange for something we both want,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor. “The president must take yes for an answer. Until he does, it’s the Trump shutdown.”Mr. McConnell has proposed that the temporary spending bill expire on Feb. 8, about a week earlier than the date set in the version of the bill that was passed last week by the House but then failed in the Senate.The proposed Feb. 8 expiration date was designed to at least partially accommodate a demand by Democrats, who are mindful of preserving what leverage they have, that any temporary funding extension be shorter than the House proposal. But the more significant piece of any possible deal to end the shutdown would be what other strings are attached — particularly when it comes to the politically contentious issue of immigration.Senators in the bipartisan group had made clear on Sunday that they were eager to bring about an end to the crisis, knowing that they were working against the clock. “Resolution gets more difficult the longer we wait,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota.Lawmakers in the House, who had been scheduled to recess for the week, were mostly left to watch and wait as their Senate colleagues tried to come together.Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said on Sunday that House Republicans had agreed to pass Mr. McConnell’s stopgap proposal if it made it out of the Senate. The onus of ending the shutdown, he said, was on Senate Democrats, and he urged them to vote to reopen the government and then restart separate immigration negotiations.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Senate leaders struck a far-reaching bipartisan agreement on Wednesday that would add hundreds of billions of dollars to military and domestic programs over the next two years while raising the federal debt limit, moving to end the cycle of fiscal showdowns that have roiled the Capitol.The accord between Senators Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and Chuck Schumer of New York, his Democratic counterpart, would raise strict caps on military and domestic spending that were imposed in 2011 as part of a deal with President Barack Obama that was once seen as a key triumph for Republicans in Congress.The deal would raise the spending caps by about $300 billion over two years. The limit on military spending would be increased by $80 billion in the current fiscal year and $85 billion in the next year, which begins Oct. 1. The limit on nondefense spending would increase by $63 billion this year and $68 billion next year.The deal would give Mr. Trump military bragging rights. “The bottom line is that, thanks to President Trump, we can now have the strongest military we have ever had,” the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said on Wednesday.At least for now, it could put an end to the fiscal crises that Mr. Trump has at times seemed to welcome.Nonetheless, the president threw his weight behind the accord, writing on Twitter, “Republicans and Democrats must support our troops and support this Bill!”The Budget Agreement today is so important for our great Military. It ends the dangerous sequester and gives Secretary Mattis what he needs to keep America Great. Republicans and Democrats must support our troops and support this Bill!If the deal passes on Thursday, lawmakers would then put together a long-term spending package over the coming weeks that would fund the government through September, granting a measure of peace to Washington as attention turns to the midterm elections in November. Heading into the midterm elections, it would also enable lawmakers to go home and claim success at delivering funding for pressing needs, like fighting the opioid epidemic.By setting overall spending levels through September 2019, the deal would ease passage of spending legislation in the next fiscal year, as well.The agreement will cause federal budget deficits to grow even larger, on top of the effects of the sweeping tax overhaul that lawmakers approved in December. But because the deal gives long-sought victories to both parties, the deficit effect appears to be of little concern. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin both quickly embraced it.From the increase in domestic spending, Mr. Schumer said the deal includes $20 billion for infrastructure, $6 billion for the opioid crisis and mental health, $5.8 billion for child care and $4 billion for veterans hospitals and clinics. In addition, the deal includes almost $90 billion in disaster relief in response to last year’s hurricanes and wildfires.The agreement includes an additional four-year extension of funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, on top of the six-year extension that Congress approved last month.“I hope we can build on this bipartisan momentum and make 2018 a year of significant achievement for Congress, for our constituents and for the country that we all love,” Mr. McConnell said.Mr. Schumer was similarly effusive. “After months of legislative logjams, this budget deal is a genuine breakthrough,” he said. “After months of fiscal brinkmanship, this budget deal is the first real sprout of bipartisanship.”Mr. Ryan urged his members to vote for it: “America will be safer and stronger because of this agreement.” His embrace boosted its chances in the House, where conservatives were cool to it, if not hostile.Republicans need to win nine senate races to keep a majority, and Democrats need to win 28 to take it away. Here’s a look at the chances of each outcome.Hard-line conservatives were unsparing in their assessment.“This is a dead-end path that will cause great hardship to Americans,” proclaimed Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama. “And if you really look it out long term and see the cascading effects, it is going to cost a lot of Americans their lives.”Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, called the deal “a betrayal of everything limited government conservatism stands for.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The agreement also incited opposition from Ms. Pelosi, who said she could not agree to any budget deal that was not accompanied by a promise to vote on legislation in the House to protect young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, or “Dreamers.”“Without that commitment from Speaker Ryan, comparable to the commitment from Leader McConnell, this package does not have my support, nor does it have the support of a large number of members of our caucus,” Ms. Pelosi said on the House floor, where she delivered a marathon speech about Dreamers that stretched for more than eight hours.She was referring to a promise by Mr. McConnell to begin debate on immigration soon, a commitment not matched by Mr. Ryan. But Mr. Ryan did not rush to offer the assurance that Ms. Pelosi sought.“Speaker Ryan has already repeatedly stated we intend to do a DACA and immigration reform bill — one that the president supports,” a spokeswoman for Mr. Ryan, AshLee Strong, said, referring to the Obama-era program that shields Dreamers from deportation known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.The budget deal would be paired with a stopgap spending measure that would keep the government open past Thursday, when the current funding measure is set to expire. Lawmakers would then have six weeks, until March 23, to pass a long-term funding package.The Senate was expected to vote on the deal on Thursday, with the House to follow afterward. It was not clear if enough Democrats would oppose the deal to imperil its passage in the House, given the likely opposition from at least some fiscal conservatives. If lawmakers cannot pass a temporary funding measure by the end of Thursday — either tied to the budget pact or by itself — the government would shut down for the second time this year.Only on Tuesday, Mr. Trump was trying to engage in fiscal brinkmanship, threatening another government shutdown if his hard-line demands on immigration were not met.“I’d love to see a shutdown if we don’t get this stuff taken care of,” Mr. Trump said then. “If we have to shut it down because the Democrats don’t want safety,” he added, “then shut it down.”But budget negotiators seemed to pay him little heed.“While President Trump threatens shutdowns and stalemates, congressional leaders have done the hard work of finding compromise and consensus,” Mr. Schumer said. He added, “At the end of the day, I believe we have reached a budget deal that neither side loves, but both sides can be proud of.”The deal had eluded negotiators for months, as it became intertwined with delicate negotiations on other matters, particularly the contentious issue of immigration.But after last month’s three-day government shutdown, Senate Democrats were willing to finalize a budget deal separately from the debate over immigration.The tax overhaul is projected to add $1.5 trillion to the deficit over a decade, and the budget agreement will balloon the deficit even further.“This deal represents budgeting at its worst — each party is giving the other its wish list with all the bells and whistles included and asking future generations to pick up the tab,” said Maya MacGuineas, the president of the watchdog group.The deal drew scorn from conservative groups angered by the big increase in spending.Jason Pye, the vice president of legislative affairs for FreedomWorks, said the deal “isn’t just fiscally irresponsible, it’s an abomination.”“No one in Congress who claims that they’re a deficit hawk or a fiscal conservative can justifiably vote for this deal,” he said.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting from Washington, and Patricia Mazzei from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »After President Trump vaguely denied using objectionable language to describe African and Caribbean nations, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, relayed his account of the events.WASHINGTON — It was just after President Trump had finished railing in the Oval Office against African immigrants he said came from “shithole countries” when a senior Republican senator, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who was there to negotiate a deal on immigration, spoke up.“America is an idea, not a race,” Mr. Graham said, according to three people familiar with the exchange on Thursday. Diversity was a strength, he said, not a weakness. And by the way, the senator added, he himself was a descendant of immigrants who came to the United States from “shithole countries with no skills.”Mr. Trump’s racially charged comments in front of more than half a dozen lawmakers, which also extended to immigrants from Haiti — followed by a day in which members of Congress denounced the president, defended him or stayed silent — now threaten what had been an emerging agreement to protect undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children.Several people with knowledge of the conversation said the president had also demanded to know whether Haitian immigrants could be left out of any deal. The White House has not disputed the account of the exchange.The collapse of negotiations on an immigration deal would raise the risk of a government shutdown next week, given that many Democrats have said such an agreement must be included in any measure to continue funding the government past a Jan. 19 deadline.President Trump’s approval rating fell across many demographic groups over his first year in office, including among those seen as important to his base.“I cannot believe that, in the history of the White House in that Oval Office, any president has ever spoken the words that I personally heard our president speak yesterday,” Mr. Durbin said.According to three people briefed about the meeting, it featured a dramatic moment between the president and Mr. Graham, who referred to Mr. Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign as a “race-baiting, xenophobic, religious bigot,” but who has recently grown close to the president and has advised him on immigration policy.After Mr. Trump disparaged African nations in foul terms, they said, Mr. Graham answered with an impassioned defense of immigrants and immigration as essential to the American ideals of diversity and inclusion.Mr. Graham has not responded to repeated requests for comment on the president’s remarks or his own. But on Friday, he released a statement that appeared to confirm the tenor of both.“Following comments by the president, I said my piece directly to him yesterday,” Mr. Graham said. “The president and all those attending the meeting know what I said and how I feel. I’ve always believed that America is an idea, not defined by its people but by its ideals.”Mr. Trump said he “never said anything derogatory about Haitians other than Haiti is, obviously, a very poor and troubled country,” and denied that he had asked to remove them from the immigration proposal, adding: “Made up by Dems.”In a joint statement released on Friday, two Republican senators who also attended the session, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia, charged that Democrats were acting dishonorably, claiming that they could not remember whether Mr. Trump used the words attributed to him.“President Trump brought everyone to the table this week and listened to both sides, but regrettably, it seems that not everyone is committed to negotiating in good faith,” the senators said. “In regards to Senator Durbin’s accusation, we do not recall the president saying these comments specifically, but what he did call out was the imbalance in our current immigration system, which does not protect American workers and our national interest.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some Republicans condemned the president’s remarks, as Democrats announced plans to introduce a resolution next week to formally censure him for them.At an event in Wisconsin on Friday, Speaker Paul D. Ryan described Mr. Trump’s comments as “very unfortunate” and “unhelpful.” Mr. Ryan went on to recall how his own relatives immigrated to the United States from Ireland.Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, suggested the president’s inability to refrain from incendiary statements was detracting from his agenda.Two high-ranking Democrats — Representative Cedric L. Richmond of Louisiana, the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, and Representative Jerrold L. Nadler of New York, a senior member of the Judiciary Committee — said they would call on Republican leaders to bring up a resolution reprimanding the president for “racist statements.”“We have to show the world that this president does not represent the real feelings of most of the American people, which is part of the reason why he lost the popular vote,” they said in a joint statement. “Congress must speak with one voice in condemning these offensive and anti-American remarks. There is no excuse for it.”After President Trump used vulgar language about immigrants, TV news grappled with a question: Were his comments racist?The bipartisan backlash to the president’s comments intensified on Friday as Mr. Trump signed a proclamation at the White House for Martin Luther King Jr. Day, ignoring a question from a reporter about whether he is a racist.The current debate about Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant talk unfolded one week before funding for the government is set to be exhausted without action from Congress, where Democrats have pressed to include an immigration plan to preserve protections for roughly 800,000 undocumented immigrants that Mr. Trump has moved to rescind. Under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a program created by President Barack Obama that is commonly known as DACA, they have obtained temporary, renewable work permits. Mr. Trump announced in September he was ending the program, setting a six-month clock before the first permits would begin expiring and calling on Congress to enact legislation to create a permanent solution in the meantime.While lawmakers had been closing in on a bipartisan deal on the matter and Mr. Durbin and Mr. Graham had been hopeful that Mr. Trump was on the brink of endorsing it, the furor surrounding his remarks appeared to deepen the divisions surrounding any such plan, prompting the president to discount the chances of an agreement.The president’s comments on Thursday came during a session in which senators were describing a plan to end the diversity visa lottery and allocate some of the visas instead to vulnerable populations from places including El Salvador, Honduras and Haiti that have had Temporary Protected Status in the United States. The measure under discussion would also provide legal status for DACA recipients and work permits for their parents, bar the children from sponsoring their parents for citizenship, and include $2.5 billion in border security funding.Mr. Trump had responded approvingly to the proposal after hearing Mr. Graham and Mr. Durbin describe it over the phone on Thursday morning, according to people familiar with the conversations, but the pair arrived at the White House to brief the president about it not long after to find several Republicans they were not expecting sitting in on the session. Attendees were startled by the tone Mr. Trump took during the meeting, and by Friday morning, Mr. Trump was listing his objections to the measure on Twitter and working preemptively to shift blame if the dispute led to a government shutdown.A headline with an earlier version of this article misquoted Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. He said: “America is an idea, not a race,” not “American is an idea, not a race.” In addition, the article contained an incorrect middle initial for a New York congressman. He’s Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, not Jerrold B.Eileen Sullivan, Thomas Kaplan and Emily Baumgaertner contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — In the fall of 2013, Republican hard-liners engineered a 16-day shutdown of the federal government, implausibly insisting that President Barack Obama acquiesce to their demand that the Affordable Care Act be stripped of all funding.The gambit failed miserably. The Republican Party’s already low standing in public opinion polls plunged further. Mr. Obama and Democratic lawmakers were widely seen as victorious.Then the following November, something happened that plainly informed the moves of Democrats today as they drove the government toward another shutdown: Voters handed Republicans overwhelming victories and a Senate majority — in large part because of dissatisfaction with the man in the White House. The shutdown was a distant memory.“I don’t think anybody paid a big price for it,” Senator Joe Manchin III, a West Virginia Democrat who is facing a competitive re-election race this fall, said of the 2014 election.For Democrats on the ballot in many of the states that President Trump carried, the fresh government shutdown is unmistakably perilous, especially if it is seen as a strong-armed move to protect undocumented immigrants brought to this country illegally as children. And Mr. Manchin voted to keep the government open, as did four other Trump-state Democrats.A deal to avoid closing the federal government hinges on Senate Democrats, and some Republicans, who want to include protections for young undocumented immigrants.But that was not enough to stop the first shuttering of the government since that 2013 showdown. In the runup, Democrats betrayed little nervousness about pushing a shutdown, because they believe any immediate backlash will be long forgotten in a midterm election destined to revolve around another, even more polarizing president.If voters had forgotten the shutdown months later in 2013, they may forget it even more quickly in 2018. In the dizzying news cycle of the Trump era, voters can hardly remember what happened a few days ago.Mr. Trump is not just historically unpopular; he is also central to voter perceptions of the Republican Party — a lesson Republicans ruefully learned in the electoral wipeouts they suffered in Virginia and New Jersey last November.An NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll released Friday found that 38 percent of voters said they wanted to send a message of opposition to Mr. Trump with their midterm vote, the highest figure making such a statement since Democrats reclaimed both chambers of Congress in 2006.The shutdown of 2013 and another in 1995 featured a deft Democratic politician in the White House who skillfully directed voter anger to the Republicans in Congress. President Bill Clinton was able to blame Newt Gingrich, the House speaker at the time, even after he vetoed spending bills that would have kept the government open.This time around, Democrats in Congress are confident that they can rely on Mr. Trump’s inevitable outbursts to motivate their base and win over moderates. That confidence has emboldened Democrats to engage in some brinkmanship that they may have steered away from with a less bombastic figure in the White House.“The president is going to figure in almost every voter’s mind in the midterms,” said Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, adding: “Democrats have learned that it’s not in our interest and it’s not consistent with our values to constantly get rolled.”Nor is it so politically daring when they are facing an opposition that spent much of Thursday deploying an alliterative hashtag, #schumershutdown, to try to pin the blame for a shutdown on Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, only to see Mr. Trump summon the would-be boogeyman to a White House meeting on Friday without any Republican lawmakers present.Congressional Republicans could only chuckle about the uncertain staying power of their newly hatched slogan.“I’m not sure what the recycling life on a hashtag is,” said Representative K. Michael Conaway, Republican of Texas.Mr. Trump did not wind up devising an agreement of his own with Mr. Schumer during their 90-minute one-on-one in the West Wing. But the president’s unilateral decision to enter into his own negotiation was a reminder to Republicans that their president is effectively a political free agent who acts more on whim, and with an eye toward media coverage, than any fixed worldview.Asked if he was alarmed about Mr. Trump’s meeting with Mr. Schumer alone, Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri was succinct: “Yes.”The federal government has shut down. But what does that mean and how does it happen?This is not to say that Senate Democrats, particularly those running this fall in the heavily white states that Mr. Trump swept in 2016, do not face any risk in a shutdown, especially if it is seen as revolving largely around protecting the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.Polling done by a Democratic “super PAC,” the Senate Majority PAC, revealed that in Indiana, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota and West Virginia, voters would fault Democrats if DACA, the program shielding the young immigrants from deportation, is what prompted the crisis.Senate Democrats are up for re-election in each of the five states, and if the party does not hold nearly all of the seats, it has no chance to net the two seats necessary to claim the majority.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“They’ve kind of gotten out over their skis,” Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the second-ranking Republican, said of Democrats. “Everybody realizes this is all about immigration.”And Republicans were heartened by a CNN survey released Friday showing that far more Americans believe it is more important to avoid a government shutdown than continue DACA.Yet every poll indicates that voters would blame Republicans if Congress does not keep the government open, and veteran party officials concede that they would face a communications challenge in making the case that they were not responsible for a shutdown.We would like to hear from federal employees. Times reporters may contact you to hear more about your story.Required fields are marked with an asterisk.First and last preferred, please.City and state, please.We will not publish your contact information. A Times reporter or editor might contact you to hear more about your story.Thank you for your submission.“The general numbers will work in the Democrats’ favor because the country will hold Republicans a little more responsible because they control the entire government,” Mr. Gingrich said.He argued that the red-state Senate Democrats were “playing with nitroglycerin,” and as evening fell on Friday, three of them made clear that they would support a measure to keep the government open: Mr. Manchin, Senator Joe Donnelly of Indiana and Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota.But the former speaker, who has been one of Mr. Trump’s stoutest defenders, conceded that the president’s intervention with Mr. Schumer also complicated the issue for Republicans. And few know more than Mr. Gingrich about how difficult it is to remain steadfast on a shutdown strategy when party unity breaks down.If Mr. Trump and Senate leaders hammer out an agreement that offers legal status to the Dreamers but is not perceived as sufficiently tough on other immigration and border security measures, it may cause heartburn among conservative lawmakers.“If you’re in the House rank and file, you get very nervous,” Mr. Gingrich said. “You begin to think: ‘Do I have to vote against this?’”House Democrats, shut out of power in Congress but handed the political gift of Mr. Trump’s unpopularity and unpredictability, could only look on in delight.“He’s as frustrating to his own party, quite frankly,” said Representative Joseph Crowley of New York.See More »Go to Home Page »Updated, 1:35 p.m.Passover begins tonight, and if you’re picking up supplies for your Seder, we thought you should know: There is such a thing as matzo hierarchy.Hence, matzo.Here’s what else is happening:We may have rain today, but we’ll have a sunny Seder on Saturday and a clear Easter on Sunday.Temperatures should stay in the 50s, so get ready to swap in that leather jacket you’ve been itching to show off.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SaturdaySundayIt’s a gray Friday, but it’s a Good Friday.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday said he would announce a decision by Tuesday on whether he will end the Obama-era program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation, declaring, “We love the Dreamers” even as his White House grappled with how to wind down their legal status.Mr. Trump has agonized publicly over the fate of immigrants who were brought to the United States without authorization as children, and who are now protected from deportation and allowed to work under the five-year-old program created by his predecessor.In recent days, White House officials have recommended that the president end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, which currently shields about 800,000 undocumented immigrants who would be subject to potential deportation to countries that many of them have not seen since birth.Several administration officials said that Mr. Trump is likely to phase out the program, but his advisers have engaged in a vigorous behind-the-scenes debate over precisely how to do so. The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because no decision was final, also cautioned that the president was conflicted about the issue and could suddenly change his mind.Asked on Friday whether DACA recipients, often called Dreamers, should be worried, Mr. Trump did not respond directly, but he did express his sympathy.“We love the Dreamers — we love everybody,” the president said in the Oval Office, surrounded by faith leaders after signing a proclamation of a day of prayer for those affected by Hurricane Harvey. “We think the Dreamers are terrific.”Later, he told reporters he had “great feeling for DACA,” while declining to answer repeated questions about whether he believes the program is legal.But in recent days, Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, and Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, have privately made it clear to Mr. Trump that they could not defend the program in court, and a group of state attorneys general led by Ken Paxton in Texas have threatened to mount a legal challenge if the president did not act to end it by Tuesday.Complicating the calculus for Mr. Trump has been the storm pummeling Texas, the state with the second-highest concentration of DACA recipients, after California. John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, has argued privately that the president can take his time on the decision, given that Mr. Paxton is unlikely to follow through on his threat in the short term, with parts of his state under water, two officials said.And it is not lost on the president that ending the program now — with many Dreamers directly impacted by Harvey — would appear particularly hardhearted.Asked Friday whether the Dreamers impacted by the storm in Texas and Louisiana were weighing on the president as he contemplated the fate of the program, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said: “The decision itself is weighing on him, certainly.”That much was evident on Friday, as Mr. Trump sent mixed messages about when the final call would come.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a midday appearance in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump first told reporters the decision was at hand, scheduled for later Friday or over the weekend. About an hour later, during another set of off-the-cuff Oval Office remarks, he said the final word would come over the weekend, or Monday at the latest. Only two hours after that, Ms. Sanders pushed the timeline still further, saying the announcement would come on Tuesday.As the White House struggled to get its rollout in place, pressure was building from a diverse coalition of supporters, including immigration advocacy groups, business executives and some elected Republican officials, for Mr. Trump to keep the program.“I actually don’t think he should do that,” Speaker Paul D. Ryan said of ending DACA as he spoke to a radio station in his home state of Wisconsin. “I believe that this is something Congress has to fix.”Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the longest-serving Republican, issued a statement saying, “I’ve urged the president not to rescind DACA.” He called for a permanent legislative solution to address recipients’ legal status.Republican Governor Rick Scott of Florida also weighed in late Friday, issuing a statement in which he said, “I do not favor punishing children for the actions of their parents.“These kids must be allowed to pursue the American dream,” Mr. Scott said, “and Congress must act on this immediately.”“Dreamers are vital to the future of our companies and our economy,” wrote the executives, who included Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Meg Whitman of Hewlett-Packard and Mary Barra of General Motors, a former member of Mr. Trump’s business advisory council. “They are part of why we will continue to have a global competitive advantage.”Yet even their zeal seemed to be waning as Mr. Trump continued to push off a decision on what should be done. On Friday, one of the attorneys general, Herbert H. Slatery III of Tennessee, said in a letter to Senator Bob Corker, another Republican of Tennessee, that he no longer supported moving forward with a legal challenge to DACA. “There is a human element,” to the issue “that is not lost on me and should not be ignored,” Mr. Slatery wrote.He also called for action by Congress to normalize the Dreamers’ status, through legislation co-sponsored by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.Pro-immigration activists argued it would be particularly callous for Mr. Trump to end the program as Texas is struggling to recover from Harvey.“If DACA were to be repealed, they’re going to be going after many young immigrants and families that have been affected by Harvey, that have been trying to keep their lives together,” said Efrén C. Olivares, the racial and economic justice director at the Texas Civil Rights Project. “Considering a repeal of DACA would be just shocking for anyone who claims to care about Texas and its communities.”Oscar Hernandez, a DACA recipient who is an organizer at United We Dream Houston, joined a conference call on Friday arranged by supporters of the program from the George R. Brown Convention Center in Houston where he was helping families displaced by the storm, vowing, “We’re here to stay.”In the community of young, undocumented immigrants, that sentiment was broadly felt.“I thought I was very distant from the days of life without DACA,” said Marcela Zhou, a 26-year-old third-year medical student at the University of California at Los Angeles, who was born in Mexico. “It is scary to go back to that uncertainty.”Miriam Jordan contributed reporting from Los Angeles.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOpinionAccording to the White House, a “great” and “beautiful” wall is to rise over Otay Mesa in eastern San Diego, Calif., modeled after one of the eight enormous prototypes on display there that are visible for miles around. I thought I could go see and lay hands on the slabs.So on a recent visit to San Diego, I went to the Otay Mesa border crossing and drove around a maze of parched industrial alleys and postapocalyptic “Mad Max” landscapes trying to find these monuments to President Trump’s vision of the future.Frustrated by their mirage-like distance, I finally parked at the end of a road from which I could see the original border fence stretching far into the distance, with houses built up against it on the Mexican side and nothing but desert on the American side.After some quick research, I realized you cannot visit the proposed wall sections without Border Patrol approval. The prototypes are inside a construction site surrounded by razor wire.Turns out, the government is worried about protesters. In other words, taxpayer money is being used to guard the prototypes not against Mexicans, but against…taxpayers.The San Diego Police Department reportedly spent $227,000 in overtime last year so officers could protect the site, plus $5,000 to cover their meals.Otay Mesa, right along the Mexican border, was once inhabited by the Kumeyaay Indians. Their nation extended from the Pacific Ocean to the Colorado River. Tribal historians say they lived there for 12,000 years.Of course, that was before undocumented immigrants invaded, and brought with them parking lots, McDonald’s and endless storage units to tame the land. A new border divided the Kumeyaay’s land, and cavalry in white Border Patrol trucks took charge.The Supreme Court ruled last Monday that the Trump administration can’t end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program for young immigrants this month, as it wanted to do. So the president will combat immigration with fear tactics and the beginnings of the Great Wall of Trump, which he will visit in mid-March. Critics are calling this trip, his first visit to California since the election, Mr. Trump’s “hallucination tour.”In his State of the Union address, Mr. Trump said, “Americans are dreamers, too,” a line that he no doubt felt resolved the DACA issue and the immigration debate for us all. I could feel Stephen Miller’s goose bumps all the way out on the mesa where the eight sections of the “beautiful wall” stand, garbage collecting around them.In Mr. Trump’s imagination, the wall prototypes rise bold and free on American land, east of the highly secure border crossing, and just past the new highway lanes by which trucks bring cargo from Mexico into the United States, and carry cargo back into Mexico.But those new fast highways are the better monuments to immigration. Before these truck lanes were built, San Diego County lost an estimated $248 million in revenue in 2008 because of delays and 2,256 jobs.A Mexican man told me: “We don’t pay attention to them. We’ll get the contracts to paint them and repair them later.”Otay Mesa is a liminal zone: The mountains nearby are serene, and the ground is dry and scrubby. It’s the perfect place for one of our catastrophic California fires to consume. The American side is a maze of narrow roads and sunburned highways, industrial buildings and trucks parked on empty roads. You may even stumble upon a little ranch between empty lots and see a cow chewing on melons. The prototypes are not visible along the main streets.On the Mexican side, Tijuana crashes into the actual border fence like a flood hitting a dam. We are often told that the city is an industrial wasteland — it’s important to the illusion that those people over there in Mexico are not fully human, that there are no happy families or hard-working folks growing geraniums in their backyards. No kids playing ball, and no dogs. Everybody and everything is hungry as hell. The Trump narrative needs Mexico to be a scary place, crawling with narcos and rapists.In Tijuana, houses flow across the land in a fractal pattern until they abruptly stop. From a distance, this imaginary line seems like magic. But it’s actually just a dirt road, on which a white Border Patrol vehicle putters, that contains a whole city.Mr. Schick told me he had been in Berlin during the days of its wall. He said the clean side, the controlled and shiny and militarized side of the Great Soviet Era Wall, was in East Berlin. It looked exactly like the American side of our border fence — trucks, armed guards, cameras, terminators with black helmets on ATVs, dogs holding the American audience back from the wall. Contact must be avoided at all costs.But the Mexican side of the wall was ablaze with color. It had become an open-air art gallery. A graffiti magnet. A place of murals. And taco stands. And art carts and strolling musicians and ice cream vendors.“In Berlin, that side of the wall, the colorful celebratory space, was on the Western side,” Mr. Schick told me. “The military, secure side, was Soviet.”Who was free, and who was the prisoner? Who is the other? Americans are dreamers too. Here’s my dream: There is no them, there is only us.Luis Alberto Urrea is the author of the forthcoming novel “The House of Broken Angels.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — Three Republican senators introduced a bill on Monday that would offer young undocumented immigrants a path to citizenship, signaling a possible bipartisan consensus on legislation to protect immigrants brought to the United States as children.Senators Thom Tillis of North Carolina, James Lankford of Oklahoma and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah offered what they called the Succeed Act, billed as a Republican alternative to the Dream Act that is championed largely by Democrats. Both measures would provide a legislative solution for some of the 800,000 or so beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, an Obama-era order that President Trump rescinded this month.Congress has six months to figure out how to deal with the program’s suspension before young recipients of the program begin losing their protections and potentially face being deported.“This bill, I believe, is a fair and orderly method for providing a permanent solution for the DACA children,” Mr. Tillis said.It is unclear whether any Democrats will sign onto the Succeed Act, or whether common ground can be reached between the Republican bill and the Dream Act, which has languished in Congress since 2001. To be eligible for protection under the Succeed Act, immigrants must have arrived before the age of 16 and been in the United States since June 15, 2012.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Succeed Act also makes immigrants apply for conditional status for the first 10 years, similar to the work permits offered under DACA, after which they are allowed access to a green card. However, unlike other green card holders, those eligible under the Succeed Act would not be allowed to use their green cards to help other family members become legal residents. After five years as a green card holder, a person would be able to apply to become an American citizen.The Dream Act is considerably more lenient.“I appreciate that my colleagues recognize the need to pass legislation giving a path to citizenship to Dreamers, young immigrants who were brought here as children and grew up in this country — so do 75 percent of the American people,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois who authored the Dream Act with Mr. Hatch. “Unfortunately,” he said, the Republican bill “falls short.”Mr. Lankford said he had talked to Mr. Trump about the bill and that the president indicated he would support it. Mr. Lankford also pushed back on conservatives who argue that legalizing so-called Dreamers would take jobs from other Americans.“It actually hurts us to pull those individuals out of the economy,” Mr. Lankford said of the young working immigrants. “This is not an amnesty bill where we take those individuals and say, ‘We are going to give you a quick route to citizenship,’ and just ignore the realities of what happened coming in.”The Republican bill’s extended timeline led some activists such as Greisa Martínez, a DACA recipient and advocacy director at United We Dream, to come out against it.“Republican Senators have created a new, partisan bill which leaves out many immigrant youth, requires us to sign away our day in court and walk on eggshells for 15 years,” Ms. Martínez said in a statement. “We demand a real solution to clean up the extreme danger that Republicans have put us in.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:The abolition of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, would be the cruelest measure of many cruel measures adopted by President Trump since he took office. A six-month delay is a joke, and a way for Mr. Trump to ease the incredible pain he will cause.Immigrants have made America great, and the children of immigrants, legal or illegal, have contributed mightily to our greatness. To abandon more than three-quarters of a million Dreamers simply because their parents entered this country illegally would not only be a travesty, but also a sapping of one of our greatest potential resources.Mr. Trump is obsessed with Barack Obama, and instead of governing, he has set out to destroy everything Mr. Obama put in place. Leave the children be, Mr. Trump. You have already caused more harm to our nation than anyone thought possible.HENRY A. LOWENSTEIN, NEW YORKTo the Editor:My family and I had the opportunity to host several Dreamers for the weekend so they could visit New York City for the first time. Rather than immediately going off to see the sights, as I suspect my own college-age children would have done, they pulled out their laptops and studied for an exam the entire evening before touring New York the next day.These bright and motivated young women were completely dedicated to their education and eager to be part of the American dream. What possible benefit could be achieved by ending DACA and subjecting these “incredible kids” (as President Trump called them) to potential deportation when they have so much to offer our country?LAURA LEVINE, LARCHMONT, N.Y.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOn CampusTuesday was my first day back at school at Baruch College for my senior year. I had been looking forward to starting class again, but it was impossible to pay attention. I was completely distracted by the whiplash of news about whether Donald Trump would end the executive order Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, — the policy President Barack Obama announced in 2012 that allowed almost 800,000 immigrant youths like me to step out of the shadows of society.Several Republican state attorneys general have threatened to sue if the president doesn’t revoke DACA by Sept. 5. So all week, as rumors have flown around the internet about the fate of the “Dreamers,” those who benefit from DACA, I have been bombarded by texts and notifications.I haven’t known what to share with my friends and family. I don’t want to add needlessly to the paranoia and fear that permeates my entire community.It’s hard to overstate how much DACA changed everyday life for people like me. Before the executive order, I couldn’t legally get a job. I couldn’t get a state ID. I couldn’t apply for virtually any scholarships. And traveling was risky. After high school, I bought myself a ticket to my first trip outside of New York since arriving from Mexico. I sweated as I went through security, worried that someone might call immigration officials if they found out I was undocumented.It’s not that the paranoia of my previous life ended: All of us Dreamers knew that DACA was a measure that provided temporary relief, subject to renewal. We all had our fingerprints taken, our criminal records scoured. We knew we needed to be good — so much depended on our good behavior. Undocumented students are generally pretty intense about following rules: We are tasked with proving that we belong here by being “perfect,” and we have to build respect for our families, who are sometimes in even more dangerous situations, and often even more careful about following rules.This is something that is so misunderstood about Dreamers. We aren’t a group of young people who take our blessings for granted. We know how much rests on our shoulders.The narrative about immigrants in this country is upsetting and wrong. I have never taken anything from anyone that did not belong to me, and I’ve worked hard for everything that I have achieved. Though undocumented immigrants contribute just as much as any other American, we don’t receive the same benefits. I pay taxes, but I don’t have health insurance. I can’t get state-funded financial aid in New York. I owe my hard-won college education not to the state, not to this country, but to my parents who paid out of their pockets and a scholarship and support from Make the Road New York, a community organization that supports undocumented youths.I’ve worked hard to be able to study and build a future for myself, and with DACA it slowly started to pay off. I enrolled in a four-year college, and I’m close to getting my bachelor’s degree in public affairs.To imagine that I might not be able to finish school, or that my degree might just be a useless paper on the wall because I won’t be able to get a job when I graduate, destroys me. My family could be separated; if I were to be deported, I would miss the childhoods of my niece and soon-to-be-born nephew. I want my family and my community to live free of this fear — the fear of being deported and the fear of seeking help, even when we’re sick.I personally couldn’t go back into the shadows even if I tried. But the freedom I’ve gained, and the future I have worked so hard for, could be ripped away if DACA is repealed. What’s worse, I will probably find out about my future from a tweet by the president. Maybe it will all depend on his mood.No matter what he says, the Dreamers are here to stay.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSNow, more than anytime in recent history, we’re hearing the triumphant roar of women of color as they break down longstanding barriers in art, film and literature. In young adult literature in particular, inventive, international stories told in newly empowered women’s voices are claiming their rightful place at the table. Take these five new Y.A. books, ranging from fantasy to realistic fiction to memoir. In these authors’ hands, non-Western sensibilities might reign in a vivid and original Yoruban religion-based world, or classical settings might be reinterpreted to create a universe in which beauty is not tied to race. A heartbreaking fictional front row seat to the Syrian refugee emergency is offset by a humorous true tale of growing up an Iranian-American immigrant without a green card. And a very modern romance proves that, despite divides both cultural and digital, love still wins. So do Y.A. readers, when it comes to seeing exhilaratingly new kinds of characters sharing space.Clayton, a co-founder of the We Need Diverse Books organization, has created an opulent mash-up setting, which seems to be a cherry-picked combination of 18th-century France, Japan and the antebellum American South. If it never quite coalesces into a seamless cultural whole, readers seduced by the page-turning palace intrigue and the vivid food and clothing descriptions won’t notice or care.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Choi, a culture correspondent for HBO’s Vice News, inserts timely issues like sexual assault, cultural appropriation and even DACA into her characters’ intimate conversations, but it is her examination of digital vs. F2F communication that feels the most immediate. Has digital communication become so ubiquitous, and interpersonal contact so arduous, that we’d rather type than talk? Thankfully, no. Penny and Sam put down their phones long enough to make out, proving that touch trumps text, and hormones still conquer all.Jennifer Hubert Swan is the director of library services at the Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin High School. She blogs at Reading Rants.See More »Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES — Brian Solis was the first to arrive, at 3 a.m. He unfolded his beach chair and tried to get some sleep, slumping over a backpack laden with school books and immigration paperwork. By dawn, dozens of others, many wearing hoodies and wrapped in blankets, had joined him on the sidewalk.Around the country, thousands of young undocumented immigrants like them have been lining up at legal clinics and scrambling to finish paperwork before the clock runs out on their chance to live and work legally in the United States.Since the announcement, nonprofits and advocacy groups have rushed to offer free legal advice, help filling out applications and, in some cases, assistance covering the $495 renewal fee.In Chicago, the Resurrection Project, which has held DACA clinics in Korean, African and Latino churches and centers, has processed about 45 applications a week since Sept. 5, compared with just two or three a week previously.In Houston, Catholic Charities has helped recipients replace documents lost in hurricane floodwaters and has held numerous application events.“Organizations like ours have been on overdrive,” said Amy Taylor, legal director for Make the Road New York, which she said had done “massive outreach” and hosted renewal workshops in Queens and on Long Island.In Los Angeles, a group called Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, or Chirla, had arranged for lawyers and for help with the fee, which several people in line said they could not afford, especially on short notice.“That’s a whole paycheck — $495,” said Blessing Soriano, 21, who works in retail and arrived at 5 a.m. to get a place in line.The administration allowed only those recipients whose benefits expire between Sept. 5 and March 5, 2018, to renew for a final two years. About 154,000 fall into that group.Between Sept. 5 and last Wednesday, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said it had received 39,400 renewal requests, more than it typically receives in a whole month. That number does not include applications filed before Sept. 5, or the ones that have flooded into government processing centers in the final days.Several advocacy groups and Democratic-led states are suing the government over the termination, claiming that it violates the Constitution and shows animus against Mexicans, who constitute the overwhelming majority of recipients, and other Latino groups.“As a practical matter, not only 800,000 people are affected by what may happen here,” said Judge Garaufis, referring to recipients’ families. “It’s unacceptable quite frankly to me as a human being in America. I’m just glad I was born in Paterson, New Jersey, and not Mexico City.”A Justice Department attorney responded that Oct. 5 was an “appropriate deadline to promptly and efficiently” wind down the program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When DACA recipients apply for renewal, they must pass a new background check — those who have committed serious crimes may be rejected — update their information and provide details about their financial circumstances. Question 3 on the form asks them to justify “economic need to work.”Applications are mailed to one of three lockboxes of Citizenship and Immigration Services, in Arizona, Illinois or Texas, depending on an applicant’s state of residence. Cases are reviewed at an agency center in Nebraska, and then applicants are notified to visit a facility in their area for fingerprints and photographs. Approvals take about three months.The demise of the program has drawn condemnation from corporations, faith-based groups and politicians on both sides of the aisle. Donors have contributed millions of dollars to help with the renewal fees.The San Francisco-based Mission Asset Fund has raised nearly $4 million, some of it from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, to cover fees for about 6,000 applicants nationwide, express-mailing them checks made out to the Department of Homeland Security. In Rhode Island, philanthropy groups, companies and the state government joined forces to cover fees for all applicants. In Washington State, an anonymous donor pitched in $125,000. In Texas, Unbound Philanthropy is subsidizing renewals for those affected by Hurricane Harvey.Mexican consulates are also assisting people who prove they cannot afford the fee.President Trump, who has at times praised Dreamers, as DACA recipients are known, put the onus on lawmakers to protect the young immigrants as part of an overhaul of the immigration system that would also toughen enforcement. But if Congress does not act, the program’s expiration will begin to have life-changing consequences on beneficiaries come March.Paula Romano, 31, whose protection expires March 18, frets about losing the $73,000 salary that she earns managing the office of an oil-field company in Hobbs, N.M.For years, she toiled in the underground economy in food service. Thanks to DACA, five years ago she got a good job, received a promotion and saved enough for a down payment on a house. “I was able to achieve the middle class,” she said, “and now I feel the weight of uncertainty.”Jose Magon’s DACA expires March 6, the day after the cutoff. “I was hoping to continue my education and now I don’t know what will happen,” said Mr. Magon, 17, of Capitol Heights, Md.Some immigrants who do not realize they do not qualify for renewal are showing up at clinics, only to be turned away.“A lot of people who aren’t eligible come in, and there’s a lot of crying,” said Kathy Khommarath, a lawyer for Chirla, the group that held the Los Angeles event.Even those who were eligible did not want to leave anything to chance, so they lined up hours before the doors opened.“I wanted to make sure I could get in and get everything done, then make it to my calculus class and to work,” said Mr. Solis, 20, who manages inventory and schedules for a restaurant while attending community college, with hopes of transferring to the University of Southern California.Just before 10 a.m., Ms. Soriano stepped out into the bright sunshine with a huge smile on her face. Her application was done, and she planned to celebrate that night with dinner at Olive Garden.“I feel like the weight of the world is off my shoulders,” she said. “I’ll be heading to work happy, even if I’m tired.”Go to Home Page »Supported byAfter 12 years of failed attempts at immigration reform, the current round of negotiations are turning on a strangely personalized question: When a deal is being made, should Stephen Miller be at the table?Miller is the White House’s point man for immigration policy (and for strange and strident encounters with the press). He is also an immigration restrictionist: He wants a policy that favors skills-based recruitment over extended families, and he wants a lower immigration rate overall. He says he’s concerned about assimilation and crime and native wages; his critics say he just wants to keep America as white as possible, and that by even bringing him to meetings Trump is making a deal impossible to reach.The problem with this approach is that it doesn’t represent the actual divisions in the country. Americans have become more pro-immigration since the 1990s, but there is still a consistent pattern when you ask about immigration rates: About a third of Americans favor the current trend, slightly fewer want higher rates, and about a third, like Miller, want immigration reduced.This bigotry, from the point of view of many immigration advocates, justifies excluding real restrictionists from the negotiating table. You can give them a little more money for border security, some promises about reducing illegal entry. But you can’t let them play a large role in shaping policy. The limits of this strategy, though, are evident in the repeated failure of “comprehensive” immigration reform over the last decade and more, doomed each time by the gulf between the plans of Republican negotiators and the actual preferences of their voters.The present view of many liberals seems to be that restrictionists can eventually be steamrolled — that the same ethnic transformations that have made white anxiety acute will eventually bury white-identity politics with sheer multiethnic numbers.But liberals have been waiting 12 years for that “eventually” to arrive, and instead Trump is president and the illegal immigrants they want to protect are still in limbo. So maybe it would be worth trying to actually negotiate with Stephen Miller, rather than telling Trump that he needs to lock his adviser in a filing cabinet, slap on a “beware of leopard” sign, and hustle out to the Rose Garden to sign whatever Durbin and Graham have hashed out.Especially since last week, Trump and Miller actually made an interesting offer: an amnesty and even a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and other Dreamers, more generous than what many restrictionists favor and with no promise of the new E-Verify enforcements conservatives often seek, in return for a shift (over many years) to a skills-based policy and a somewhat lower immigration rate.But if you think that lasting deals are forged when all sides are represented, you might consider making a counteroffer: for instance, the same rough blueprint but with more green cards for skilled immigrants, so that Miller gets his cuts to low-skilled immigration but the overall rate stays closer to the status quo.But a bargain that actually reflects the shape of public opinion, not just the elite consensus, can only happen with someone like Stephen Miller at the table.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byNews AnalysisWASHINGTON — For 55 minutes, with cameras rolling, President Trump engaged in a vigorous discussion of immigration with congressional leaders of both parties in a setting usually reserved for bland talking points and meaningless photo opportunities.In effect, the president and his visitors threw away the blah-blah scripts and negotiated possible legislation in front of the nation. “I hope we’ve given you enough material,” a pleased Mr. Trump joked with reporters as he finally ushered them out of the Cabinet Room in the White House.The bar, of course, was historically low given that Democrats and even some Republicans have been describing him as so unstable that he should be removed from office. For his advisers, the meeting was a relief, a chance to reset the narrative and make Mr. Trump look more like a traditional president. And his critics, grading on a curve, called it a welcome change, a moment of constructive engagement that they hoped would lead to more.Yet it was a measure of Mr. Trump’s political weakness that anyone seemed surprised.He did not lapse into incoherence but neither did he demonstrate mastery of policy details after a year in office. At one point, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California seemed to lead him into agreeing to an immigration deal on terms that she and fellow Democrats have sought, only to have an alarmed Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, jump in to steer him back toward his own policy.Indeed, Mr. Trump made clear once again that the details of governance do not really matter to him as much as success, telling congressional leaders that he would approve whatever they send him. “I will be signing it,” he said. “I’m not going to say, ‘Oh, gee, I want this or I want that.’ I’ll be signing it.”But the news media more typically is invited into the room for only the first few minutes of such a meeting to record the traditional platitudes before being kicked out. After Tuesday’s meeting, lawmakers said that they were surprised Mr. Trump allowed cameras to stay and some noted wryly that they had become props in his latest reality television show.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who was a harsh critic when he faced Mr. Trump in the Republican primaries in 2016 but has lately become one of his chief allies, called Tuesday’s session “the most fascinating meeting I’ve been involved with in 20-plus years in politics.”Democrats used other adjectives. “It’s fairly bizarre that the president has to show that he’s actually balanced and sane,” Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, said in an interview afterward.Did he succeed in doing that? “More than some other kinds of other behaviors that he’s engaged in,” she said cautiously.“It was more constructive than I believed it was going to be,” added Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado. “I went into it thinking that it was just an opportunity to have a photo op and maybe allow him to demonstrate that he was not the person he was accused of being over the weekend. But I think it was more constructive than that.”Recalling that, Democrats said they were curbing their expectations. But they held out hope that a coming spending deadline might force action. “I see all of the potential stars aligned,” said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey. “Doesn’t mean that it will happen. But I see the stars aligned for the possibility of something happening.”He added that he could agree to concessions on bolstering border security and ending the diversity lottery visa program, two of Mr. Trump’s priorities, if the president likewise made compromises. “We’re willing to give,” Mr. Menendez said. “Some of these things for me are still hard, but I’m willing to do that if we achieve a real goal here and if Republicans are reasonable about what they’re seeking.”As in the past, however, Mr. Trump got immediate pushback on Tuesday from conservative allies who quickly accused him of betraying the very promises he won the presidency on. In exchange for border security, he said he would sign legislation to replace the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an Obama-era program that protected younger immigrants who were brought into the country illegally as children but that Mr. Trump scrapped, citing legal grounds.Mr. Trump said he was prepared for the pressure if the two sides moved beyond a quick initial deal and tackled a broader comprehensive immigration bill down the road.“I’ll take the heat, I don’t care. I don’t care,” he told lawmakers. “I’ll take all the heat you want to give me, and I’ll take the heat off both the Democrats and the Republicans. My whole life has been heat. I like heat, in a certain way.”The next weeks will test that because the temperature is sure to keep going up.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing an angry chorus of protests from leaders of his own party, including the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, insisted on Monday that he would not back down from his plan to impose across-the-board tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. But the White House was devising ways to potentially soften the impact of the measures on major trading partners.On Monday, Mr. Ryan, the most powerful Republican in the House, broke with the president, declaring through a spokeswoman, “We are extremely worried about the consequences of a trade war and are urging the White House to not advance with this plan.” The tariffs, Mr. Ryan’s spokeswoman said, would “jeopardize” the economic gains from the recent Republican tax cuts.Mr. Trump appeared little moved by the pushback. One of his all-important barometers — the stock market — rebounded on Monday after falling sharply immediately after the announcement of the tariffs last week as the Republican dissent fueled optimism that Mr. Trump would ultimately reverse course. Opponents of tariffs, including many economists, warn they could damage economic growth by igniting a ruinous trade war, a prospect that Mr. Trump has alternately welcomed or dismissed as unlikely.But a person close to the White House said that the president was itching to impose tariffs, and that Monday’s stock market rebound had reassured Mr. Trump that he was in the right.“We’re not backing down,” the president said at the White House on Monday, as he reeled off a familiar litany about trade deals that he said had driven out factories and deprived American workers of jobs.The debate over tariffs has become a litmus test for Mr. Trump, putting his longstanding suspicion of free trade up against the equally fervent support for it among Republicans and members of his own administration.Inside the White House, the debate has pitted hard-liners like Peter Navarro, the president’s trade adviser, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross against more pro-trade voices, like Mr. Trump’s chief economic adviser, Gary D. Cohn, who argue that the measure could disrupt international alliances and global supply chains.Here’s how President Trump and his administration are selling the decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum despite strong Republican pushback.Republican lawmakers have criticized tariffs as undercutting the $1.5 trillion tax cut that they worked in lock step to pass last year, saying tariffs are essentially a tax increase that would slow economic growth. On Monday, they floated the idea of congressional action to try to block tariffs, should the president impose them.Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, circulated a letter Monday expressing concern over the tariffs. Senator Dan Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, said he spent the weekend speaking with members of Congress and “senior administration officials” about his opposition to the president’s plan.“As you know the administration is split itself,” Mr. Sullivan said from the annual CERAWeek energy conference in Houston, noting that details of the tariffs remain sparse.Mr. Trump has heard all sides’ arguments, but his view has remained steadfast, one White House official said.Still, the official said, the president is mindful enough of the arguments against potentially tanking the stock market that he has been somewhat open to a move to narrow the scope and effects of the tariffs while avoiding the perception that he was relenting. That would echo the approach the administration took to winding down the president’s promises on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, which has protected young immigrants brought illegally to the United States as children.The unsettled nature of a final policy was magnified by a conversation on Sunday between Mr. Trump and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. May, a person briefed on the call said, warned Mr. Trump how dangerous the tariffs would be. Mr. Trump disagreed, but concluded the conversation by telling Ms. May that he had not made a final decision on what to do.The president originally announced that he wanted to put new tariffs into effect this week, but a legal review has not been concluded. On Sunday, Mr. Navarro said the tariff announcement could come this week or the following week at the latest. He also reaffirmed that companies might be able to seek exemptions for certain foreign products they need for their business, a process likely to lead to months of furious lobbying.A coalition of 25 industry associations representing farmers and companies that use steel and aluminum has started lobbying the administration and lawmakers, arguing that the tariffs are far broader than necessary and would create higher prices on American companies that buy and use metals.The president and his advisers have repeatedly maintained that any tariffs will be imposed on imports from all countries without exception. The Commerce Department has concluded that imports of steel and aluminum pose a threat to national security, a determination that gives the president broad authority under United States law to impose tariffs.But that legal standing will undoubtedly be challenged by other countries and companies, both in court and at the World Trade Organization, which requires that members treat all other members equally on trade. Creating exceptions for countries like Canada and Mexico for non-national security reasons like Nafta could invite challenges at the World Trade Organization, said Jennifer Hillman, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center.“Unequivocally, I think there will be cases filed at the W.T.O., and there is plenty of ground to challenge this,” Ms. Hillman said.On Monday, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, said Mr. Trump decided to link a tariff exemption to a revised Nafta deal “a couple of days ago” as Mr. Lighthizer prepared to travel to Mexico City to meet with his Mexican and Canadian counterparts.“It makes sense, since this is a major irritant, to have it be considered,” Mr. Lighthizer said in Mexico City after meeting with Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo of Mexico and Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland of Canada. He said the situation could be modified for Mexico and Canada given a successful Nafta renegotiation, as well as “perhaps other countries in other contexts where we have those kinds of problems.”Even if Canada and Mexico were exempted from the tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, officials said the United States would impose a quota on those countries’ exports to prevent them from being used as a conduit for metals shipments from other nations.Neither Canada nor Mexico appeared mollified by the prospect of a tariff exemption in exchange for bending to United States demands on Nafta. Ms. Freeland reiterated comments that any action that ensnared Canada would be “completely unacceptable.”“México shouldn’t be included in steel & aluminum tariffs,” Mr. Guajardo said in a tweet. “It’s the wrong way to incentivize the creation of a new & modern #NAFTA.”Michael Camuñez, a former Commerce Department official who advises international firms doing business in Mexico, called the proposed tariffs and the tweet a “terrible development” for the Nafta negotiations “because all parties have indicated that they will not negotiate with a gun against their head.”The talks in Mexico City produced no meaningful progress, and ultimately would be decided by one man — Mr. Trump, Mr. Camuñez said. Negotiators have continued to clash over provisions in the pact, including rules for auto manufacturing, and the United States has continued to insist on changes that its trading partners say are nonstarters.Mr. Camuñez said Mexico and Canada would retaliate “with good reason” if the steel and aluminum tariffs were imposed, an outcome that could lead to a breakdown in negotiations. “That would escalate tensions and that could lead the president to conclude that these negotiations aren’t going anywhere and blame the Mexicans and the Canadians,” Mr. Camuñez said.Mr. Trump has threatened additional retaliation if other nations erect their own trade barriers, saying in a tweet over the weekend that the United States would make it harder for the European Union to sell cars in the country if it imposes tariffs on American imports.Reporting was contributed by Ian Austen from Ottawa, Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City, Lisa Friedman from Houston and Thomas Kaplan from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOpinionTHE decision by the Trump administration to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and to defer instead to Congress for a solution to the problem threw a wild card onto a congressional agenda that was already packed. But far more important, it thrust the lives of roughly 800,000 of our friends and neighbors into instant uncertainty.Washington being Washington, the administration’s decision and its confusing aftermath produced heated and generally unhelpful rhetoric from the extremes of both political parties. Having served as the Republican majority leader in the House of Representatives during the last major immigration debate, I understand the implications of this all too well.In 2013, a year after the Obama administration established the DACA program, I announced that I was working on legislation to provide a more stable way forward for these so-called Dreamers: young people who had been brought into this country illegally as children and who knew no other home.As we continued to gather support for the legislation and the 2014 election neared, protesters from both sides of the debate descended on Richmond, Va., my hometown, for dueling rallies. Those from the left attacked me for blocking comprehensive reform because of my focus on Dreamers, while my friends on the right claimed I was promoting an amnesty.I have long believed that America is a country of laws and that border security is paramount. I also firmly believe that the principles of our founding dictate that children should not be punished for the illegal acts of their parents. The Dreamers were not responsible for their situation, and as a compassionate nation and people we owed them our help: a legal process that could address their status effectively and permanently. But Congress was gridlocked and my proposal went nowhere.Fast forward to today. The Trump administration has stated that the DACA program will end in six months unless Congress acts. What will Congress do?As President Barack Obama himself acknowledged, DACA is an imperfect and temporary solution. Every two years Dreamers must renew their deferment from deportation and their work permit. And while DACA makes it possible for them to enroll in college, they remain barred from receiving federal financial aid. Even under DACA, the Dreamers never fully and legally integrate into our country.Only Congress can fix this mess. It should do so by providing a path for law-abiding Dreamers to obtain a green card and ultimately, full citizenship.In exchange for a much improved program for Dreamers, Congress should significantly increase America’s border security by funding additional personnel, technology and physical resources at our border. While President Trump’s “wall” has gotten all the political attention, much of the border can be secured more quickly and efficiently by other means. In addition, Congress should require the institution of a comprehensive biometric entry-exit system to prevent visa overstays.For Republicans, these measures are a critical first step before tackling broader immigration changes. Of course, this is the sort of deal that the extreme wings of both parties will oppose, but it is exactly the type of sensible compromise the nation needs.Over the past couple of days, we have heard that President Trump and some members of Congress are on the verge of such a compromise, only to later learn that there may not be a deal after all. It’s hard to say exactly what is happening, but it seems safe to say that the president, congressional Democrats and congressional Republicans all have different ideas of what constitutes “protecting the Dreamers” and “securing the border.”Watching this unfold, I was reminded of those dueling protests in my district three years ago, when I shook my head wondering how one group of people could call my proposal amnesty for illegal immigrants while another described the very same proposal as a step backward for illegal immigrants.I fear we are on the verge of the same thing happening again. Each day that passes without a deal increases the likelihood that Washington will ultimately do what it usually does: keep the status quo. At best, this would entail Congress authorizing the current DACA program with the same two-year renewals and uncertainty for Dreamers. In the meantime, Democrats and Republicans would continue to fight over border security with little or no progress to show for it.While keeping the status quo would protect the Dreamers from immediate deportation, it would represent a missed opportunity of tremendous proportions for them, for border security and for broader immigration reform.It is well past time for Republicans to stand up to those on the right who are quick to denounce any sensible solution as amnesty and for Democrats to stand up to those on the left who rail against any meaningful steps toward border security and immigration enforcement.The fate of the Dreamers presents a unique opportunity for both parties to do just that. If they do, we may well look back on this as the beginning of the end of the immigration wars.Eric Cantor is a former Republican House majority leader and vice chairman and managing director at Moelis & Company.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSGo to Home Page »WASHINGTON — A week after concerned Republicans promised quick work to shield young, undocumented immigrants from President Trump’s decision to end their federal protections, lawmakers have tied themselves in knots trying to figure out how to proceed — with only six months to find a way forward.If anything, advocates for immigrants brought to this country as children may have lost ground.Representative Mike Coffman, Republican of Colorado, pulled back a petition he had initiated to force the House to take up legislation to protect so-called Dreamers. A Senate Judiciary Committee hearing into the issue was canceled this week. And Representative Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he would not move on any such legislation before he addressed criminal alien gangs and border security.“With all the other things going on right now, it’s kind of put on the back burner,” Mr. Coffman conceded.When Mr. Trump announced last week that he would end the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in six months, that time frame was supposed to light a fire under Congress. Instead, it may have hit the snooze button, Mr. Coffman said.“He could have done an immediate phase out,” he said. “That would really put pressure on Congress to put DACA right on the top of the agenda. But in giving Congress six months, with all the other things going on right now, the debt limit, the appropriations, tax reform, it’s not certainly on the top of the agenda right now.”Mr. Coffman, a top target for Democrats in next year’s midterm elections, had planned to circulate a “discharge petition” to force a vote on a three-year extension of DACA that he wrote with Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois. But he called off the action after Speaker Paul D. Ryan said he wanted a broader immigration measure that twinned enhanced border security measures with legalization for young immigrants.Mr. Ryan is planning to meet with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, as well as the heads of the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus on Wednesday afternoon to discuss paths forward on DACA.The Senate Judiciary Committee had planned to hold a hearing on DACA on Wednesday but postponed the meeting at the request of the Trump administration, according to a congressional aide who was not authorized to discuss the meeting. Mr. Goodlatte said this week that he would hold no DACA hearings until border security legislation is drafted.Instead, this week the House will take up the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act, aimed at MS-13 and other immigrant gangs, and the Legal Workforce Act to expand electronic worker verification efforts. Mr. Goodlatte said he would follow those bills with legislation dealing with immigrant agricultural workers.“We are happy to have discussions with anybody who wants to talk about what we need to do with DACA, but I would say DACA is at the end of that list, not at the beginning,” said Mr. Goodlatte in an interview. “We can’t fix the DACA problem without fixing all of the issues that led to the underlying problem of illegal immigration in the first place.”In a meeting at the White House last week, Mr. Trump pressed Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, for 15 minutes about pairing funding for a border wall with protections for Dreamers, according to a person familiar with the meeting, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not cleared to discuss internal deliberations. Both Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi rejected the deal.On Tuesday, Marc Short, the White House legislative affairs director, told reporters that Mr. Trump was unlikely to stand by his wall-funding demand, though he said the administration is still “interested in getting border security.”“I don’t want us to bind ourselves into a construct that makes reaching a conclusion on DACA impossible,” Mr. Short said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, Democrat of New Mexico and chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair, said she is still hopeful that Americans will rally around the 800,000 young immigrants facing deportation.“They are panicked and we understand that real, raw fear,” she said. “I can’t even deal with the possibility that we fail because I know what’s at stake.”Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip, was cautious. “I wouldn’t say that I’m confident about Republicans putting it on the floor,” he said. “But I’m hopeful, and we’ve had positive discussions.”Mr. Coffman did say he is prepared to sign a Democratic petition to force a vote on the Dream Act — a rare overture to the minority party. But with 194 members, Democrats are going to need quite a few Republicans to get the 218 signatures they need, and even Republicans with large Latino populations in their districts are reluctant.Representative Jeff Denham, Republican of California, said he does not plan to sign the Dream Act discharge petition.Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer are maneuvering to get the Dream Act attached to the fiscal deal that will have to be struck in December to keep the government funded through an omnibus spending bill.“Republicans will be unable to pass an omnibus in December depending on Republican votes alone,” Ms. Pelosi said in a statement. “That increases Democrats’ leverage.”But any hope of bipartisan momentum seems to be dissipating.“Whether this six month opportunity gets across the goal line remains to be seen. I wouldn’t place a bet,” said Representative Bennie G. Thompson of Mississippi, the top Democrat on the House Homeland Security Committee.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byWhere policy was concerned, the story of Donald Trump’s first year in office was simple: The populist of the campaign trail, the man who won the Republican nomination and the White House by ignoring conservative orthodoxy and promising the moon, was replaced by a president who essentially conceded control of his agenda to Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell and spent down his limited political capital pursuing conventionally right-wing policies — unsuccessfully on health care, successfully on taxes, but in each case without much moderate or bipartisan support.There are many reasons — one for almost every tweet — that Trump arrived at his first official State of the Union address as a wildly unpopular president despite a reasonably strong economy, but his failure to follow through on his campaign’s populist promises is high on the list. So you could read tonight’s remarks (a better idea than listening to their somewhat soporific delivery) in part as an attempt to hit the reset button, to pitch himself as a centrist dealmaker rather than a predictable ideologue, to leave the legislative struggles of his first year behind and get back to selling people on things they actually want.Thus even as he touted his tax cuts, Trump effectively buried further efforts at Obamacare repeal by suggesting that the repeal of the unpopular individual mandate sufficed as health care policy. There was no mention of deficit reduction or spending cuts, nor of the entitlement reforms dear to the heart of the House speaker just behind him. Apart from a long riff on immigration and a nod to judicial nominations, the conservatism of the speech was heavy on generalities about flag, faith and family, with more polarizing issues like abortion mentioned only by implication. Apart from the Islamic State, North Korea and Guantánamo Bay, the foreign policy section was … strikingly empty. America First, it seems, means not having to bore viewers by bringing up anything about the world beyond our shores except our enemies. And then for domestic policy there was a list of ideas that Bernie Sanders might campaign on in 2020: cheaper prescription drugs, a $1.5 trillion gusher of infrastructure spending, even a promise to pursue paid family leave. Not conservative ideas, these — but mostly popular ones.In this sense, and also in the canny and sometimes moving choices of inspirational figures in the balconies, I suspect the speech was effective, that it might help lift Trump temporarily upward from his mean of 38 percent approval toward the “we’re holding the House by our fingernails” promised land of 44 percent.But an effective speech is not the same thing as an effective agenda, and right now there are no prospects for Trump’s popular ideas getting enacted or even really considered on the Hill. His party’s ideologues don’t want them, the opposition party doesn’t want to make a deal with Trump to get them, and his White House doesn’t actually have any detail behind the rhetoric. The ideas are just things that the president would probably like to do but that someone will talk him out of, or that he’ll forget about, or that he’ll offer in a halfhearted way and that Congress will never bother to take up.The only exception, the only issue where he does actually have some details to offer, is immigration reform. But here the speech’s appeal to the assembled legislators to make a version of the deal he’s offering on DACA — essentially an amnesty and path to citizenship now in exchange for future immigration reductions — was undercut by all the fearmongering about immigrant crime that Trump wrapped it in. For Democratic politicians whose base doesn’t want to compromise and whose own political interest isn’t served by any kind of major immigration deal, the bloody-shirt business with MS-13 murders was a permission slip for intransigence: Why make a bargain with a president who talks like half your immigrant constituents are gangbangers?So this State of the Union both showed what a more successful version of the Trump presidency would look like — still conservative on many fronts but more genuinely populist, less same-old G.O.P. — and why the possibility of that success has probably already slipped from this administration’s grip. There were ideas here that could make Trump’s second year more successful than the first, but there was no plan to actually enact them, no sign that Trump is prepared to build bridges where he’s burned them, no plan for getting more out of this speech than just a temporary polling bump.Politicians have won re-election with that sort of messaging. But few of them have had as far to climb to reach even basic likability as President Donald J. Trump.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byDoes it matter that Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, tried to justify Donald Trump’s immigration cruelty with junk economics?It’s definitely not the main issue. Trump’s decision to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy is, above all else, immoral. The 800,000 beneficiaries of DACA — the so-called Dreamers — have done nothing wrong; they came to the United States illegally, but not of their own volition, because they were children at the time.They are, according to all available data, an exemplary segment of our population: hard-working young people, many seeking to improve themselves through higher education. They’re committed to the values of their home — because America is their home.To yank the rug out from under the Dreamers — perhaps even to use the information they supplied voluntarily to harass and deport them — is a cruel betrayal. And it’s self-evidently driven by racial hostility. Does anyone believe this would be happening if the typical Dreamer had been born in, say, Norway rather than Mexico?It’s true that Trump and company tell a lot of lies about economics (and everything else).So having officials make false claims about the economics of DACA is, in a way, just standard operating procedure for this administration. Yet I’d argue that in this context it’s especially noteworthy, and especially vile.For one thing, what was stuff about jobs even doing in a statement by the attorney general?Furthermore, the claim was, as I said, junk economics. The idea that there are a fixed number of jobs, so that if a foreign-born worker takes a job he or she takes it away from a native-born worker, is completely at odds with everything we know about how the economy works. Hearing it from a conservative is especially surreal.The truth is that letting the Dreamers work legally helps the U.S. economy; pushing them out or into the shadows is bad for everyone except racists.To understand why, you need to realize that America, like other advanced economies, is facing a double-barreled demographic challenge thanks to declining fertility.On one side, an aging population means fewer workers paying taxes to support Social Security and Medicare. Demography is the main reason long-run forecasts suggest problems for Social Security, and an important reason for concerns about Medicare. Driving out young workers who will pay into the system for many decades is a way to make these problems worse.On the other side, declining growth in the working-age population reduces the returns to private investment, increasing the risk of prolonged slumps like the one that followed the 2008 financial crisis.It’s not an accident that Japan, which has low fertility and is deeply hostile to immigration, began experiencing persistent deflation and stagnation a decade before the rest of the world. Destroying DACA makes America more like Japan. Why would we want to do that?In short, letting Dreamers work is all economic upside for the rest of our nation, with no downside unless you have something against people with brown skin and Hispanic surnames. Which is, of course, what this is all really about.David Brooks is off today.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSGood morning.It’s the prettiest time of year in California’s Central Valley. Along country roads, fragrant trees burst with white, pink and red flowers that normally bear a bounty of fruit in the summer.But a cold snap that gripped the state last week may have harmed the blossoms and undermined this year’s almond, peach, plum and nectarine crops. Now growers are busy assessing the fallout.“There will be damage; it’s just a matter of how bad it will be,” said John Chandler, a grower in the Fresno area. “Frost at the time that it came is really catastrophic.”Thermometers dipped into the 30s in Los Angeles County and into the 20s across California’s agricultural heartland early last week. Then, after a midweek respite, temperatures plunged again.“Anything below freezing is when you start biting your nails, particularly this time of year,” said Mr. Chandler, whose family has been farming in Selma, Calif., for four generations.In late February, California’s stone-fruit and nut trees wake up from their winter dormancy, begin to bloom and enter a growth spurt that stretches until the summer harvest.“Trees in bloom are very, very fragile,” said Ryan Jacobsen, executive director of the Fresno County Farm Bureau. “Freezing temperatures can burn the flowers or harm fruit that is just being set.”Growers worked around the clock to implement frost-protection measures, such as irrigating their orchards to create a warmer environment around the trees.Extremely low temperatures have also kept bees in their hives, instead of on the job pollinating.“Not only are we losing crops, but bees aren’t flying,” Mr. Jacobsen said, adding, “The bees make your crop.”Subfreezing temperatures are more likely to impact California agriculture in December and January, when the citrus harvest is underway. Temperatures plunged to the 20s only briefly around Christmas last year, sparing this season’s production.Half of the navel orange and mandarin crop is still on trees, but citrus industry officials said they were not worried.Smaller almond and stone-fruit crops could push up prices for consumers.“We’re casting a wary eye on the forecast,” Mr. Chandler, the grower, said. “If Mother Nature keeps going cold, there’s not much that worrying is going to do to save the crop.”(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Smack in the middle of Los Angeles, Canter’s Deli has long provided Angelenos — a few of them famous — with a comforting respite in the wee hours of a weekday morning.After the bars close, the decades-old landmark of a restaurant has stood ready to receive customers seeking endless coffee refills, a plate of pickles, enormous pastrami sandwiches and an entire booth they could claim for themselves.“Change is hard,” Canter’s tweeted. “But our food will still be the same.”California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialPresident Trump didn’t even have the guts to do the job himself. Instead, he hid in the shadows and sent his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to do the dirty work of telling the country that the administration would no longer shield from deportation 800,000 young undocumented immigrants brought to this country as children.False, false, false and false.In short, DACA is morally right, legally sound and fiscally smart policy. It was also the only humane choice Mr. Obama had in the face of Congress’s failure to pass any meaningful immigration reform in the last two decades.The only bad thing that could be said about DACA is that, because it was a presidential memorandum, it was always vulnerable to being undone by a shortsighted administration playing to its base.Now that that has happened, 800,000 people — all of whom gave their personal information and immigration status to the government, believing it would not be used against them — face the prospect of being shipped back to a country they may have no connection to or even remember.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — One year to the day after taking office with vows to bring the dysfunction of Washington to heel, President Trump on Saturday found himself thrust into the most perennial of political crises, bitterly casting blame on Democrats for a government shutdown he said they had orchestrated to mar the anniversary.Mr. Trump had planned to spend the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., celebrating his first year in office at a soiree with friends and supporters. Instead, he remained out of sight in the White House, where he stewed about an impasse he had been unable to prevent, according to people close to him, and held a feverish round of conversations with Republican leaders in search of a resolution.Inside the White House, Mr. Trump, the neophyte president who has styled himself the ultimate dealmaker, remained remarkably disengaged from the complex process of hammering out a politically palatable deal that could provide a way out of the morass.Senior advisers counseled him to do less, not more, negotiating, arguing that the shutdown was a political problem that Democrats had created for themselves, and had to find their own way to resolve. But Mr. Trump, a highly reactive personality who detests headlines questioning his leadership — like those that dominated cable TV throughout Saturday, during coverage of the shutdown and women’s marches throughout the country denouncing his presidency — felt stymied and wanted somehow to intervene, according to one presidential adviser.It fell to John F. Kelly, his chief of staff, who is also a newcomer to high-stakes legislative talks, and is still learning to channel Mr. Trump’s fluctuating impulses, to haggle over the details with Republican leaders, who have become accustomed to plunging into tricky negotiations without a clear sense of what the president would accept.Mr. Trump shuttled between the presidential residence and the Oval Office, where he spent some time in the afternoon. Throughout the day, he monitored television coverage that toggled between the government shutdown and the women’s marches, one of which ended near the White House.The president spoke with the Homeland Security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, and Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, to discuss the impact of the shutdown on border security and the military. He spoke by phone with Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and the House majority leader, Kevin McCarthy of California, to strategize on a path forward.Hundreds of thousands of federal workers would be furloughed, affecting a wide range of government programs.Eager to strike a deal with Democrats to extend deportation reprieves to a group of undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, Mr. Trump was nonetheless constrained by his own campaign promises to toughen immigration restrictions, and hemmed in by Republican congressional leaders uneasy about lining up behind a mercurial president with a penchant for changing his mind.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Saturday that the president refused to negotiate on immigration issues until there was a deal to reopen the government.Referring to Democrats’ insistence that a deal to protect the young immigrants be in hand before they agree to a funding measure, Marc Short, the White House legislative director, told reporters at the White House: “There is nothing in this bill Democrats say they object to, yet it’s like a 2-year-old temper tantrum to say, ‘I’m going to take my toys and go home because I’m upset about something else.’”In his morning Twitter burst, Mr. Trump said Democrats were prioritizing “illegal immigrants” over American citizens and military personnel, and argued that the only solution to end the dysfunction was to defeat the party in this year’s midterm congressional elections.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In fact, it was Mr. Trump who opted not to pursue a potential deal that he and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, had hashed out over lunch at the White House on Friday. The proposal would have kept the government open, funded a border wall and extended legal status to undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, while including disaster aid funds and money for a federal children’s health insurance program. Mr. Kelly later called Mr. Schumer to say the agreement lacked sufficient immigration restrictions.While Mr. Schumer said shortly after the government shut down that “in my heart, I thought we might have a deal tonight,” White House officials argued that he had drastically overstated the progress made during the lunch.On Saturday, though, Mr. Schumer said that even members of the president’s party had by now recognized that Mr. Trump was ill equipped to strike a political compromise.The federal government has shut down. But what does that mean and how does it happen?“What’s even more frustrating than President Trump’s intransigence is the way he seems amenable to these compromises before completely switching positions and backing off,” he said on the Senate floor. “Negotiating with President Trump is like negotiating with Jell-O.”The remark echoed one made by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, at a hearing this past week, in which he said there were “two Trumps,” one who was open to a bipartisan immigration deal and one who was not.Mr. Trump’s shifting desires and demands on immigration have complicated the task of resolving the shutdown conflict. He has repeatedly signaled an inclination to strike a deal with Democrats that would codify Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, the Obama-era program that gave work permits and deportation reprieves to about 800,000 undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children.But each time he has drifted toward such a bargain — first at a dinner last year with Mr. Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, then at a large meeting in the Cabinet Room this month with lawmakers in both parties, next in phone conversations with Mr. Graham and Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and again on Friday with Mr. Schumer — he has snapped back to a hard-line position.Conservative Republican lawmakers and proponents of immigration restrictions in his inner circle at the White House, led by his senior adviser, Stephen Miller, and Mr. Kelly, have often been the ones to intervene, pushing the president to take a harder line.One senior administration official, who asked for anonymity to discuss private conversations, described an inexperienced president who genuinely wanted to reach a deal with Mr. Schumer when he called the Democratic leader to the White House on Friday. But Mr. Trump had not determined how it would play out or mapped out a strategy with Republican leaders, the official said, or considered how the politics of a shutdown might unravel.After Mr. Schumer departed, Mr. Trump met at the White House with Representatives Mark Meadows of North Carolina and Raúl Labrador of Idaho, members of the conservative Freedom Caucus who insist that any DACA measure include steeper immigration restrictions than the president has demanded.Yet Mr. Trump has complained privately about his own advisers’ attempts to stiffen his spine on immigration. In the Cabinet Room meeting this month, the president erupted when an aide distributed a list of conditions that included restrictive interior enforcement measures. “I don’t know what this is,” the president said, according to a person briefed on the exchange, which was first reported by The Washington Post, and said he did not appreciate being blindsided by his own staff.A Trump adviser painted a different picture, saying that Mr. Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat, had expressed anger at the document, and that Mr. Trump, who often plays to the crowd in front of him, was merely joining in the outrage.On Saturday, the president was left alternately defiant and angry, self-pitying and frustrated. He argued to aides that he did not deserve the blame he was taking, but without a credible deal on the table, there was little for him to do. Irritated to have missed his big event in Florida, Mr. Trump spent much of his day watching old TV clips of him berating President Barack Obama for a lack of leadership during the 2013 government shutdown, a White House aide said, seeming content to sit back and watch the show.An earlier version of this article mischaracterized an interaction between President Trump and Senator Mitch McConnell. They spoke by phone, not in a White House meeting.Julie Hirschfeld Davis reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell sounded downright magnanimous in anticipation of 2018, eager to work closely with Democrats even though he had cut them out of virtually every big-ticket deliberation during 2017.“We’re going to be looking for areas of bipartisan agreement because that’s the way the Senate is,” Mr. McConnell, the majority leader, said this month as Congress fled town for the holidays.After a year spent trying to pass major overhauls of health care and taxes with no Democratic support, Republicans want to be able to present themselves as reasonable and responsible, fully capable of working across party lines for the common good. It is both an important message to send to independent and swing voters, who broke from Republicans in 2017 elections, and part of the Washington cycle — mix in a little bipartisanship to dilute the heavily partisan nature of much of what takes place in the capital. Whether it pays off this time will depend upon what — if anything — gets done and how sincere the efforts are.Democrats say they are open to Republican overtures and would like to see bipartisan progress on immigration, public works and domestic spending. New sexual harassment rules for Congress are also emerging as an area of consensus.But given what has transpired over the past 12 months, Democrats are skeptical about a major transformation in the coming 10 before the November elections. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Senate Democratic leader, suggested real cooperation would require a wholesale attitude adjustment on the part of Republicans and Mr. Trump.“Senate Republicans have spent a year writing bills without any Democratic input that hurt the middle class and pleased their wealthy, hard-right benefactors,” Mr. Schumer said. “There is a chance for bipartisanship, but only if Senate Republicans reverse course, tell their hard-right benefactors they can’t dictate policy, and genuinely work with Democrats.”Democrats already see signs of trouble clouding the prospects for common ground. As they seek to make permanent the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, which grants protection to immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, Mr. Trump is already imposing conditions that Democrats say they will not accept.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As for infrastructure, a national program to rebuild the country’s aging transportation system has always been considered a prime opportunity for the two parties to