Supported byOp-Ed ContributorAnother problem with the proposal, though, may be that it is not bold enough in dealing with the full expanse of our immigration policy.The only way to truly curtail illegal immigration may require that all employers use an electronic system like E-Verify to certify the legal status of newly hired workers, accompanied by sizable penalties for employers who break the law.Those who argue that getting rid of chain migration is racist are just throwing scare words into the fire to choke debate. Our current system lets a new immigrant eventually sponsor the entry of her brother, who can then sponsor the entry of his wife, who can sponsor her father, who can sponsor his sister, and so on. Does it really make sense for one entry today to eventually lead to a visa for the immigrant’s sister-in-law’s aunt?Finally, President Trump’s proposal attempts to bring some economic sense into immigration policy. It would get rid of the lottery and reallocate some of those visas to high-skilled workers. This is a step in the right direction, as long as we care about the economic benefits from immigration. But the reallocation of fewer than 50,000 visas would barely make a dent.Perhaps a bigger objection is the three big issues it leaves off the table, and perhaps bringing those issues back into the realm of the possible would allow for a better deal.The debate over illegal immigration will not end if Congress enacts the president’s proposal. If the government grants amnesty to nearly two million Dreamers, there will still be at least nine million illegal immigrants left behind “in the shadows.” Would anyone be surprised if there were then continuing discussions about how to package the plight of those nine million illegal immigrants in a way that highlighted their suffering and that forced politicians to pay immediate attention to their situation?Those who have a gut reaction against regularizing the status of nine million illegal immigrants may need to bite the bullet. Their reluctance is understandable — our last attempt at an amnesty, in 1986, failed, and did not solve the problem. But there is little appetite, and rightly so, for deporting nine million people. Most of those immigrants have been our neighbors for many years, have stayed out of legal trouble and have deep roots in our communities.Perhaps bringing them into the debate today would let us reach a better solution to the festering immigration problem.But let’s also be realistic and acknowledge up front that the road to a deal is going to be very bumpy.A sensible immigration policy that generates economic benefits for Americans and for immigrants already here ensures that we can better adapt to the economic shocks that will visit us in the next few decades. And the best way to maximize those benefits is to filter the pool of persons who want to migrate.Before jumping in to claim that such “filtering” is un-American, it’s worth remembering that anything short of open borders inevitably involves filtering. Between the 1920s and 1965, the filtering was done through national origin, giving preference to immigrants born in Western European countries. Since 1965, we have preferred immigrants who have relatives already living here. Filtering on the basis of economic potential ensures that immigration generates the largest possible economic gain for our country.There is some concern that whatever deal the Trump administration reaches will be easily undone by the next administration. I’m not so sure this is a valid point. History teaches us that it is extremely difficult to change immigration policy. The stars aligned only twice in the past century: once in the 1920s and then again in the 1960s.Given the nature of the policy shifts that some politicians tried to ram through under the label “comprehensive immigration reform,” it is not surprising that the label became loaded and maligned. Nevertheless, President Trump’s proposal opens the door for a truly comprehensive attempt at simultaneously tackling all the big issues that confront us.George Borjas is a professor of economics and social policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and the author of, most recently, “We Wanted Workers: Unraveling the Immigration Narrative.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsImmigration has become one of the most polarizing issues of our day. But it is worth remembering that this century opened with a tale of family and migration that was as contentious as many of the stories that punctuate our current debate: the case of Elián González.In November 1999, when Elián was 6, he left Cuba in a small boat with his mother, who was seeking a better life in Florida. She and 10 others died when the boat sank in a storm. Elián survived by clinging to an inner tube. Courts eventually ruled that he must return to his father in Cuba rather than stay with relatives in Florida. He remains there to this day.Brace yourself for the possibility of seeing this kind of scene again.As Republicans, whose party has consistently and rightly advanced policies to support the essential role of families in America, we are deeply troubled by the harm that is about to be done to hundreds of thousands of families that have legally called America home for more than two decades.In the wake of the 2001 earthquake in El Salvador that claimed more than 1,000 lives and destroyed 100,000 homes, the United States allowed hard-hit families to live and work in America. This merciful act was one of many that America took to relieve the suffering of a natural disaster in one of the hemisphere’s most troubled, impoverished nations.It is wrong to potentially break up so many families that have for so long made the United States their home — legally and at our invitation.When prioritizing the immigration problems we face, the case of 200,000 Salvadorans who accepted our invitation to live and work here legally would not even make a top-10 list. The biggest challenge is, of course, securing the border. It must be done. Continued illegal migration across the southern border and the often-related criminal activity involving drugs, human trafficking and undocumented, unregulated labor is unacceptable.Second, of course, is what to do with the 10 million to 15 million undocumented immigrants who arrived over the past several decades and who have become part of American life — and who, let’s be honest, will not and should not be forcibly removed. Congress and the president can and must act now to resolve these problems.As our leaders try to devise durable, humane solutions to the most urgent immigration issues, it is a mistake to think the right approach is to look backward, relitigate nearly 20-year-old decisions and break up families. In fact, the action against Salvadoran families is so problematic that it is hard to see how it will not hinder efforts in Washington to find common ground on immigration.Another of our challenges is how to deal with the 800,000 undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States with their families when they were children. The uncertain status of these “Dreamers” is not of their own making. Though they were not born here, they know no other home than America. They grew up, studied and work here. They are largely models of the assimilation we seek for all immigrants. Congress can and should move quickly to send President Trump legislation providing a common-sense resolution to their situation so that they can continue to thrive here as part of the American dream.Singling out Salvadoran families for separation is simply a bad idea that should be dropped. If we believe America is made stronger by families, then let’s do everything we can to strengthen all the families who choose to call America home. At the very least, the federal government should not become the instrument for attacking them.We must instead take up the actual immigration challenges we face in a humane, responsible way that protects American interests and jobs.John Kasich, a Republican, is the governor of Ohio. Jeb Bush Jr. is a board member of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSFact-checkThree days of presidential tweets contained many false and misleading accusations.Supported byIn a dozen Twitter missives over the past three days, President Trump has accused Democrats of failing to protect young undocumented immigrants, criticized Mexico for its role in illegal immigration to the United States and warned of “caravans” of people headed toward the southern border.At least half of his statements were inaccurate. Here’s a fact-check.These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!Several states won injunctions in January and February requiring the federal government to accept applications from current DACA recipients to renew their resident status. On Tuesday, citing data from United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Attorney General Xavier Becerra of California estimated that at least 30,000 of the so-called Dreamers have been able to renew their DACA status since January.Democratic leaders have rejected Mr. Trump’s demand to pair the program with funding for a border wall, but that is not nearly the same as not wanting a legislative solution at all.Mr. Trump first chastised Mexico for not preventing Central American migrants from reaching the United States. But a day later, he praised Mexico for its “strong border laws.”A White House official said Mr. Trump was referring to Mexican exports that enter the United States tax-free because of the North American Free Trade Agreement.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSTROY, N.Y. — Here in the birthplace of “Uncle Sam,” a former steel town built by Irish and Italian arrivals, the local sheriff has embraced a federal program designed to catch undocumented immigrants in county jails.His decision to do so — a first for New York State — in a jail that houses relatively few foreign-born inmates has outraged immigration activists, Democratic lawmakers and, notably, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, whose Albany statehouse office is in Troy’s backyard.The elected sheriff, Patrick Russo, a Republican with 43 years in local law enforcement, has thus inserted his mostly rural county 150 miles north of New York City into the national immigration debate.“State police agencies do not and will not engage in such activity, and we are troubled that one local sheriff in the state has decided to participate,” said Alphonso David, the chief counsel to Governor Cuomo, whose office sits six miles south of Troy. The agreement, he said, is “contrary to the public policy and values of our state.”The program in Rensselaer County has yet to start. Under it, ICE will train two staff corrections officers to identify, interrogate and turn over inmates for being in the country illegally — including some who may still be awaiting trial on criminal charges. The officers will still be subject to ICE oversight.Governor Cuomo and activists warned that 287(g) undermines trust between immigrants and law enforcement and makes immigrants less likely to report crimes, the reason many police chiefs across the country cite for not participating.In an interview, the sheriff said that he was unaware of Rensselaer’s unique status in the state.“I was kind of surprised when I heard that,” Mr. Russo, 65, said from the sprawling county jail complex on the banks of the Hudson River in South Troy. “Because, to me, this is another tool in the toolbox, and I am allowed to reach into the toolbox to make the county safer.”A spokesman for ICE applauded the decision. “The partnerships with local law enforcement are invaluable force multipliers for ICE in the place we can be most effective in the fight to enhance public safety — local jails,” said the spokesman, Khaalid Walls.Census statistics from 2016 show only about 5 percent of residents are foreign-born in the county (a figure that may not count undocumented immigrants), and most reside in Troy, the county seat.“I could be wrong, but I don’t see a big immigrant population here who would be affected,” Sheriff Russo said.While there could be some small financial benefit for the county, since ICE would pay the jail for any detainees, Sheriff Russo said his primary reason for taking part was to ensure that the jail did not release dangerous criminals back into the community.He cited a 2016 double homicide of two residents who were Mexican citizens in North Troy. The four people charged were also Mexican nationals, three of whom are in the Rensselaer jail now.In the county’s application to take part in the program, it listed the top five crimes committed by foreign-born individuals as petty larceny, criminal mischief, criminal possession of a controlled substance and of a weapon, and vehicle offenses.The city’s economy revolves around Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, technology start-ups and incubators, and it is represented by six legislators, all Democrats; the hill towns swung the county to Mr. Trump.The 287(g) program comes from Uncle Sam, too. It refers to a section of a 1996 law signed by President Bill Clinton.“There’s a lot of rumors out there that we are going to go out and do sweeps,” Mr. Russo said. “The agreement doesn’t allow us to do that.”But activists and lawmakers are concerned that the sheriff’s seal of approval will embolden patrol officers to act, informally, as immigration agents, too.It sends the message that “they are out to send into deportation anyone who gets arrested for any incident,” said Melanie Trimble, the director of the New York Civil Liberties Union’s Capital Region chapter.Sarah Rogerson, who directs the immigration law clinic at Albany Law School, said she was concerned that the discretionary powers afforded the two officers could lead to civil rights abuses, such as not having a translator on hand.Sheriff Russo cited the potential danger of the MS-13 gang as a reason for signing the agreement. According to the State Police, there is no MS-13 activity in the county. “And we want to keep it that way,” Mr. Russo said.Recently, two of the larger counties in the tristate area decided not to participate in the program. Hudson County, in New Jersey, withdrew in part because of fierce political pressure, and because not enough prisoners were circulating through the jail because of New Jersey’s bail reform law.The Albany County Sheriff’s Office applied for the program last fall when it thought that it could generate revenue. But Sheriff Craig Apple Sr. withdrew amid public opposition.Edward F. Manny III, a Democrat and the deputy minority leader of the Rensselaer County Legislature, said, “If nobody else in this state signed it, what do we know that they don’t?”Mr. Russo likened his office’s participation to other lucrative federal partnerships, as with the U.S. Marshals Service and the Drug Enforcement Administration. The 225,000-square-foot jail, built in 1992 and expanded in 2009, had 331 inmates as of March 13, 130 of them federal prisoners; the federal government pays $97 a day for each of them. The same rate would be applied to inmates housed under ICE custody.The application to the 287(g) program said that between two and six foreign-born inmates pass through the jail in a month; 3,000 people a year go through the jail.The application also stated that on average, Troy receives no more than one “detainer” request per month to hold inmates for ICE after completion of their criminal sentence. In 2017, according to the jail, there were no detainers requested; since January 2018, the jail has honored six requests.Asked why he did not hold public forums when applying for the program, Mr. Russo said he did not want to breed violent protests. “I’m just not going to host public forums because they become Chinese fire drills,” he said.The Rensselaer County Legislature passed a resolution last week in support of the agreement by a 13-to-6 vote along party lines, as opponents denounced the sheriff from the podium and protested outside the legislative chambers. Mr. Russo, tall and broad-shouldered, sat stone-faced inside.The sheriff’s grandfather came from Naples and opened an Italian grocery store in Troy after arriving in 1909. Rocco DeFazio, 66, the town’s unofficial historian, whose own grocery and pizza restaurant lies a little more than a mile from the jail, said he did not agree with the ICE partnership. But he wanted to correct any misconceptions that his friend could be Troy’s version of Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff of Maricopa County in Arizona who was convicted (and later pardoned by Mr. Trump) of criminal contempt for his treatment of Latinos.“I grew up with Pat,” Mr. DeFazio said. “He’s a very considerate guy. And he’s not a hardened racist. He’s not. I think it’s a little over his head.”An earlier version of a picture caption with this article incorrectly identified where a cook is from. Myo Myo is from Burma, not Nepal.Go to Home Page »SAN FRANCISCO — A top federal official likened Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland to a “gang lookout” on Wednesday, saying her warning of an impending, large-scale arrest operation had given immigrants in the United States illegally the opportunity to flee.Ms. Schaaf had announced on Saturday that she had learned through “unofficial channels” that the federal Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency, or ICE, was planning arrests in the area.“I know that Oakland is a city of law-abiding immigrants and families who deserve to live free from the constant threat of arrest and deportation,” she said in a statement that circulated widely on social media over the weekend. “I believe it is my duty and moral obligation as mayor to give those families fair warning when that threat appears imminent.”The mayor’s warnings proved correct. Since Sunday night, ICE officers have arrested more than 150 people in Northern California in an operation ICE said was targeting “public safety threats.”But ICE officials said the mayor’s warning jeopardized officers’ safety, and said that hundreds more undocumented immigrants they had planned to arrest may have eluded the agents after the tip-off.The fight between ICE officials and Ms. Schaaf added a fresh layer of acrimony to a battle between the Trump administration, which has stepped up efforts to detain and deport unauthorized immigrants, and California officials determined to resist the president’s agenda.James Schwab, a spokesman for ICE in San Francisco, said agents were targeting around 1,000 people in the area, which appeared to be one of the largest operations since Mr. Trump took office. Mr. Homan blamed the mayor’s warning for agents not being able to detain 800 people they had targeted in recent days.One official briefed on the plans for the operation at the Department of Homeland Security, which includes ICE, said that ICE agents typically find only about 30 percent of their targets during any large sweep. The official, who was not authorized to discuss the operation, declined to be identified.The 30 percent rate would suggest that while some immigrants may have benefited from the tip-off, it is unlikely that 800 of them did, as Mr. Homan suggested.Immigration advocates have occasionally sought to warn of rumors of impending ICE arrests, but Ms. Schaaf’s decision was striking because it came from the mayor of one of California’s largest cities.Ms. Schaaf, the mayor since January 2015, has been a strong promoter of Oakland’s diversity, including its large population of immigrants, who make up around a third of the city’s 420,000 residents.In an interview on Wednesday, the mayor said she did not regret her decision to issue advance warning.“I still contend that what I did was both legal and moral,” she said, batting away a suggestion made during Mr. Homan’s appearance on Fox News that she could have obstructed justice. “I did not provide any specific detail that could have endangered law enforcement.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A Bay Area liberal standard-bearer in a decidedly liberal city, Ms. Schaaf has been an unshrinking critic of Mr. Trump, whom she has called the “bully in chief.”She said she interpreted the raids as both racist and politically motivated, targeting liberal California.“The Trump administration and ICE officials have been very transparent that they are retaliating against California for its political position,” she said.The president, she said, “is trying to equate immigrants with dangerous criminals.”Although Ms. Schaaf said she had information that ICE had been targeting people in Oakland, she had not heard of any arrests taking place in the city.Immigrant advocates reported arrests by ICE in Merced, Contra Costa, Sacramento, Monterey and Napa Counties — an area much broader than just the San Francisco Bay Area. On Wednesday, several dozen protesters gathered outside the ICE office in San Francisco, chanting support for undocumented immigrants and writing “KEEP FAMILIES TOGETHER” across an intersection.While the Obama administration focused arrest efforts on undocumented immigrants who had committed crimes in the United States, Mr. Trump has made clear that anyone in the country without permission can be arrested. Last year, immigration arrests nationwide rose by more than a third from the previous year, in large part because officers have more freedom to detain unauthorized immigrants with no criminal record.Still, the administration has made a point of highlighting the criminal pasts of undocumented immigrants. Around half of those arrested in Northern California in recent days had previous criminal convictions in addition to immigration violations, said Mr. Schwab, the ICE spokesman.An ICE statement said some had lengthy criminal records, including one, Armando Nuñez-Salgado, whom the agency called a “documented Sureño gang member” who had been deported four times and who over the past 18 years had accumulated convictions — it listed burglary and hit-and-run causing injury — resulting in more than 15 years in prison.Mr. Schwab would not say on Wednesday whether the arrest operation was continuing, but he said the agency would issue a statement once it was completed.Caitlin Dickerson contributed reporting from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »Mr. Sessions told a crowd of more than 200 law enforcement officials in a hotel ballroom that he would not stand for the insubordination of California lawmakers and what he called the dangerous obstruction of federal immigration laws.A 10-minute walk away, in a briefing room of the State Capitol, Gov. Jerry Brown unleashed a tirade against Mr. Sessions and the Trump administration. He said that the administration was “full of liars” and that Mr. Sessions was “basically going to war against the state of California.”It was highly unusual for an attorney general “to come out here and engage in a political stunt, make wild accusations, many of which are based on outright lies,” Mr. Brown added, “particularly a fellow coming from Alabama talking to us about secession and protecting human and civil rights.”Mr. Sessions described the state’s so-called sanctuary laws as a radical maneuver that would threaten public safety and throw open the nation’s borders to even more illegal immigration.Immigration law “is in the books, and its purposes are clear and just. There is no nullification, there is no secession. Federal law is the supreme law of the land,” said Mr. Sessions, one of the administration’s most adamant immigration restrictionists. He accused the state of intentionally using “every power the legislature has to undermine the duly established immigration laws of America.”The lawsuit, which the Justice Department disclosed on Tuesday in advance of Mr. Sessions’s speech, capped a clash between the Trump administration and California that has lasted more than a year, with each side reaping political profit from the battle. The administration has sought to demonstrate that it will not tolerate noncompliance with federal immigration enforcement; California’s top officials, professed leaders of the anti-Trump resistance, have pushed the state to cooperate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement as little as possible.Even as Mr. Sessions spoke, that opposition was making itself heard. Outside the hotel where Mr. Sessions was speaking, several hundred protesters marched, holding signs saying “Go Home Jeff” and “Crush ICE” and chanting, “What do we want? Sessions out!”Shortly after Mr. Sessions’s speech, Mr. Brown and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, both Democrats, appeared together in the Capitol to denounce the lawsuit.“California is in the business of public safety,” Mr. Becerra said. “We are not in the business of deportation.”It targets three state laws passed in recent months: one that limits state and local agencies’ ability to share information about criminals or suspects with federal immigration officers, unless they have been convicted of serious crimes; a second that prohibits local businesses from allowing ICE to examine employee records without a court order or a subpoena; and a third that gave California officials more oversight over the state’s immigration detention centers.Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra defended the legislation as constitutional on Wednesday, saying that the laws prevented neither ICE agents from working in local jails and prisons nor employers from cooperating with ICE. The employee records law, Mr. Becerra said, simply ensures that workers and employers are guaranteed “their rights and their privacy and that those are being respected.”Asked whether the law would, in effect, require warning undocumented workers to flee ahead of an ICE visit, Mr. Brown compared the provision to the practice of notifying criminal suspects that they have a right to a lawyer. “We are just following the law, and the law allows people to be advised of their rights,” Mr. Brown said. “Anything else smacks of a more totalitarian approach to things.”Mr. Sessions had another comparison in mind.What if, he asked, a state enacted legislation hampering the work of employees from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency? “Would you pass a law to do that?” he said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Schaaf’s actions “support those who flout the law and boldly validates illegality,” Mr. Sessions said, calling her warning “an embarrassment to the proud state of California.”“So here’s my message to Mayor Schaaf,” he said. “How dare you, how dare you needlessly endanger the lives of our law enforcement officers to promote a radical open borders agenda?”Ms. Schaaf said last week that she had not publicized any information that endangered ICE officers. She said she issued the warning because “I know that Oakland is a city of law-abiding immigrants and families who deserve to live free from the constant threat of arrest and deportation.”Inside the hotel ballroom on Wednesday, Mr. Sessions faced a polite, if somewhat divided, audience.Some police chiefs and sheriffs in liberal-leaning areas have argued that their agencies must distance themselves from ICE to avoid scaring off immigrant residents who may be more reluctant to serve as witnesses or come forward to report crimes. But there are many other officials across the country who say they would prefer to work with ICE if the legal issues surrounding such cooperation are clarified, and some who are eager to help the federal government outright with immigration enforcement.Those tensions were palpable at Mr. Sessions’s speech, which was hosted by the California Peace Officers Association, a law enforcement advocacy group. The crowd responded to the speech with brief applause; about 10 of the more than 200 officers in the room stood to clap.“I’m stuck in the middle,” said Deputy Chief Derek Williams of the police department in Ontario, a midsize city east of Los Angeles with a large Hispanic population. “It’s extremely bifurcated now.”While the new state laws do not affect his work on a day-to-day basis, he said, the sharp increase in ICE activity has fostered “a lack of trust with law enforcement” among immigrant residents. “It’s a difficult time for us,” he said.Among those who endorsed Mr. Sessions’s message was Paul R. Curry, a lobbyist for the California Correctional Supervisors Organization, which represents supervisors in the state prison system. He said California police chiefs were often caught between ICE’s requests and the orders of their mayors, who might embrace sanctuary policies.“Every police officer is sworn to uphold the law not only of the state but the nation,” Mr. Curry said. “The progressive agenda is running afoul of the force of our laws in the country.”An earlier version of this article misquoted Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s remarks about Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland. He said Ms. Schaaf’s actions to alert residents about a planned immigration raid “support those who flout the law and boldly validates” — not “invalidates” — “illegality.”Thomas Fuller reported from Sacramento and Vivian Yee from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »President Trump delivered a lengthy criticism of current immigration policy, accused Democrats of using “chain migration” to get votes and repeated unfounded claims of election fraud.WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va. — President Trump dispensed on Thursday with what he called a “boring” speech on tax reform here, tossing his text to his fans before launching into a lengthy tirade against immigration that included an accusation that Democrats were embracing dangerous policies to secure immigrant votes.Mr. Trump traveled to West Virginia to promote his $1.5 trillion tax overhaul before a friendly audience. But the president grew tired of his prepared remarks after a few moments and returned to the bitter complaints about the United States’ immigration laws that have dominated his attention this week and prompted him on Wednesday to ask governors to deploy the National Guard to the southern border.“This was going to be my remarks — it would have taken about two minutes, but what the hell — that would have been a little boring,” Mr. Trump said, tossing a sheet of paper covered with neat paragraphs of text into the audience. “I’m reading off the first paragraph, I said, ‘This is boring.’ Come on. We have to tell it like it is.”“This is what the Democrats are doing to you, and they like it because they think they’re going to vote Democrat,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re doing it for that reason, and other reasons.”The president later told reporters aboard Air Force One that he intended to deploy 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard troops to the border with Mexico. If Mr. Trump sends the low end of his proposal, it would barely exceed the 1,200 sent by President Barack Obama in 2010 to support other border agencies. Even if Mr. Trump sends 4,000, the top end of his proposal, he would be dispatching fewer than President George W. Bush did in 2006.In a statement on Thursday, the Pentagon press secretary, Dana White, said that the National Guard troops would focus on engineering, logistical support and vehicle maintenance among other things. The statement did not mention the troops taking part in law enforcement.Republican leaders have urged the president to sell the tax cut that he signed in December, and have tried to make economic growth and low taxes the central theme of 2018 as they move toward a difficult midterm election season. But Mr. Trump has refused to keep to the script.Instead on Thursday, he opted to blast immigrants and the country’s immigration laws, including a practice known as “catch and release,” in which migrants who present themselves at the border are released from custody to await an immigration hearing to determine whether they should be allowed to remain in the United States.“We’re toughening up at the border,” Mr. Trump said. “We cannot let people enter our country — we have no idea who they are, what they do, where they came from.”“We don’t know if they’re murderers, if they’re killers, if they’re MS-13,” Mr. Trump went on. “We’re throwing them out by the hundreds.”Mr. Trump also said his administration had cracked down on MS-13, the transnational gang with links to El Salvador, detailing its brutal methods.“This is the kind of stuff and crap that we’re allowing into our country, and we can’t do it,” Mr. Trump said.He also repeated his false claim that millions of people voted illegally in the 2016 election.“They always like to say, ‘Oh, that’s a conspiracy theory,’” Mr. Trump said. “Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump’s remarks drew enthusiastic applause from an audience of about 200 in a state that he won with 68 percent of the vote, his largest margin of victory in the country.But it also drew rebukes.“President Trump is insulting American voters by making up lies,” said Jason Kander, a former Democratic candidate for the Senate and now the president of Let America Vote, a voting rights group. “President Trump’s lies cause the American electorate to lose faith in our system of elections and take our elections less seriously, which is one of his goals. If people don’t trust that their vote counts, then they won’t vote.”The round table on taxes was a lovefest for the president, in which attendees took turns praising him and recounting the ways in which the tax measure and Mr. Trump’s agenda had helped them and their families.“This is a big deal for our family,” Jessica Hodge said, choking back tears after her husband told Mr. Trump that their family had saved $2,417 because of the tax cut. He said they planned to spend it on a kitchen renovation.“Thank you for listening to us. Thank you for fighting for us,” she added.The president grinned and nodded his approval.Evan Jenkins, a West Virginia House member, and Patrick Morrisey, the state’s attorney general — who are competing in a May primary to run for the Senate — flanked Mr. Trump and took turns showering him with praise.“You’re a man keeping your promises,” Mr. Jenkins said. “Thanks for keeping your promise.”Mr. Morrisey chimed in. “Your policies really have made an incredible difference in our state,” he said, adding, “We had the bull’s-eye on us until you got here, so thank you for that.”As he wrapped up the event, Mr. Trump asked the audience to weigh in on which man should win the primary next month.“Should we do a little test?” he said. “Who’s voting for Patrick? Who’s voting for Evan?”The applause was loudest for Mr. Jenkins, who represents the district that White Sulphur Springs is in.Mr. Trump also attacked Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, saying that he had opposed tough immigration laws and the rest of the president’s agenda.“I thought he would be helpful because he talks,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Manchin, a centrist who is known for seeking compromises with Republicans. “But he votes against everything, and he voted against our tax cuts.”While Mr. Trump spent little time promoting the tax measure he had come to celebrate, he seemed to feed off the adulation of his crowd and relish his detour off-script. Speaking with reporters aboard Air Force One as he returned to Washington, the president asked how the event had gone.Greeted with silence, Mr. Trump answered his own question, saying he was “very happy.”“Thought it was really great,” he added.Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »President Trump delivered a lengthy criticism of current immigration policy, accused Democrats of using “chain migration” to get votes and repeated unfounded claims of election fraud.WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va. — President Trump dispensed on Thursday with what he called a “boring” speech on tax reform here, tossing his text to his fans before launching into a lengthy tirade against immigration that included an accusation that Democrats were embracing dangerous policies to secure immigrant votes.Mr. Trump traveled to West Virginia to promote his $1.5 trillion tax overhaul before a friendly audience. But the president grew tired of his prepared remarks after a few moments and returned to the bitter complaints about the United States’ immigration laws that have dominated his attention this week and prompted him on Wednesday to ask governors to deploy the National Guard to the southern border.“This was going to be my remarks — it would have taken about two minutes, but what the hell — that would have been a little boring,” Mr. Trump said, tossing a sheet of paper covered with neat paragraphs of text into the audience. “I’m reading off the first paragraph, I said, ‘This is boring.’ Come on. We have to tell it like it is.”“This is what the Democrats are doing to you, and they like it because they think they’re going to vote Democrat,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re doing it for that reason, and other reasons.”The president later told reporters aboard Air Force One that he intended to deploy 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard troops to the border with Mexico. If Mr. Trump sends the low end of his proposal, it would barely exceed the 1,200 sent by President Barack Obama in 2010 to support other border agencies. Even if Mr. Trump sends 4,000, the top end of his proposal, he would be dispatching fewer than President George W. Bush did in 2006.In a statement on Thursday, the Pentagon press secretary, Dana White, said that the National Guard troops would focus on engineering, logistical support and vehicle maintenance among other things. The statement did not mention the troops taking part in law enforcement.Republican leaders have urged the president to sell the tax cut that he signed in December, and have tried to make economic growth and low taxes the central theme of 2018 as they move toward a difficult midterm election season. But Mr. Trump has refused to keep to the script.Instead on Thursday, he opted to blast immigrants and the country’s immigration laws, including a practice known as “catch and release,” in which migrants who present themselves at the border are released from custody to await an immigration hearing to determine whether they should be allowed to remain in the United States.“We’re toughening up at the border,” Mr. Trump said. “We cannot let people enter our country — we have no idea who they are, what they do, where they came from.”“We don’t know if they’re murderers, if they’re killers, if they’re MS-13,” Mr. Trump went on. “We’re throwing them out by the hundreds.”Mr. Trump also said his administration had cracked down on MS-13, the transnational gang with links to El Salvador, detailing its brutal methods.“This is the kind of stuff and crap that we’re allowing into our country, and we can’t do it,” Mr. Trump said.He also repeated his false claim that millions of people voted illegally in the 2016 election.“They always like to say, ‘Oh, that’s a conspiracy theory,’” Mr. Trump said. “Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump’s remarks drew enthusiastic applause from an audience of about 200 in a state that he won with 68 percent of the vote, his largest margin of victory in the country.But it also drew rebukes.“President Trump is insulting American voters by making up lies,” said Jason Kander, a former Democratic candidate for the Senate and now the president of Let America Vote, a voting rights group. “President Trump’s lies cause the American electorate to lose faith in our system of elections and take our elections less seriously, which is one of his goals. If people don’t trust that their vote counts, then they won’t vote.”The round table on taxes was a lovefest for the president, in which attendees took turns praising him and recounting the ways in which the tax measure and Mr. Trump’s agenda had helped them and their families.“This is a big deal for our family,” Jessica Hodge said, choking back tears after her husband told Mr. Trump that their family had saved $2,417 because of the tax cut. He said they planned to spend it on a kitchen renovation.“Thank you for listening to us. Thank you for fighting for us,” she added.The president grinned and nodded his approval.Evan Jenkins, a West Virginia House member, and Patrick Morrisey, the state’s attorney general — who are competing in a May primary to run for the Senate — flanked Mr. Trump and took turns showering him with praise.“You’re a man keeping your promises,” Mr. Jenkins said. “Thanks for keeping your promise.”Mr. Morrisey chimed in. “Your policies really have made an incredible difference in our state,” he said, adding, “We had the bull’s-eye on us until you got here, so thank you for that.”As he wrapped up the event, Mr. Trump asked the audience to weigh in on which man should win the primary next month.“Should we do a little test?” he said. “Who’s voting for Patrick? Who’s voting for Evan?”The applause was loudest for Mr. Jenkins, who represents the district that White Sulphur Springs is in.Mr. Trump also attacked Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, saying that he had opposed tough immigration laws and the rest of the president’s agenda.“I thought he would be helpful because he talks,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Manchin, a centrist who is known for seeking compromises with Republicans. “But he votes against everything, and he voted against our tax cuts.”While Mr. Trump spent little time promoting the tax measure he had come to celebrate, he seemed to feed off the adulation of his crowd and relish his detour off-script. Speaking with reporters aboard Air Force One as he returned to Washington, the president asked how the event had gone.Greeted with silence, Mr. Trump answered his own question, saying he was “very happy.”“Thought it was really great,” he added.Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES — The federal agency that issues green cards and grants citizenship to people from foreign countries has stopped characterizing the United States as “a nation of immigrants.”The director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services informed employees in a letter on Thursday that its mission statement had been revised to “guide us in the years ahead.” Gone was the phrase that described the agency as securing “America’s promise as a nation of immigrants.”The original mission statement, created in 2005, said,: “U.S.C.I.S. secures America’s promise as a nation of immigrants by providing accurate and useful information to our customers, granting immigration and citizenship benefits, promoting an awareness and understanding of citizenship, and ensuring the integrity of our immigration system.”The new version says: “U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services administers the nation’s lawful immigration system, safeguarding its integrity and promise by efficiently and fairly adjudicating requests for immigration benefits while protecting Americans, securing the homeland and honoring our values.”The agency director, L. Francis Cissna, who was appointed by the Trump administration, described the revision as a “simple, straightforward statement” that “clearly defines the agency’s role in our country’s lawful immigration system and the commitment we have to the American people.”Mr. Cissna did not mention in his letter that he had removed the phrase “nation of immigrants,” which was popularized by a book by President John F. Kennedy and is frequently used to convey America’s multiculturalism.However, Mr. Cissna did note that he had eliminated the word “customers” in describing the foreign nationals whom the agency serves, “a reminder that we are always working for the American people.”León Rodríguez, director of the agency from 2014 to 2017, said the revision of the mission statement marked “a particularly sad turn of history.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We should not forget that under the discarded mission statement, the integrity and national security functions of U.S.C.I.S. grew — dramatically so — showing that we could be both a welcoming nation and a safe one,” Mr. Rodríguez said. “We should stop to reflect about the many opportunities that America will lose because of the attitudes reflected in this statement, and ask ourselves whether this is really the country we want to be.”Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration, applauded the change.“A nation of immigrants isn’t a mission statement,” he said, “it’s a slogan.”“The biggest problem with our immigration system is that it lacks a clear national interest objective,” he added.As director of U.S.C.I.S., Mr. Cissna has promoted an agenda that reflects the Trump administration’s skeptical and often hard-line stance on immigration. The agency has increased scrutiny of visa applications for foreign workers whom American companies seek to hire; it has changed the asylum application process to discourage people from seeking safe haven in the United States; and it has added steps to the process for foreigners already in the country to obtain legal permanent residency, or a green card.U.S.C.I.S., a unit of the Department of Homeland Security, reviews petitions of foreign nationals who seek to visit, work, reside and find refuge in the United States. It also processes citizenship applications, which have surged since President Trump won the election in 2016.In his letter to his staff, Mr. Cissna wrote, “We are also responsible for ensuring that those who naturalize are dedicated to this country, share our values, assimilate into our communities, and understand their responsibility to help preserve our freedom and liberty.”Published posthumously, Kennedy’s “A Nation of Immigrants” highlighted the contribution of immigrants when the country was engulfed in a debate over the direction of its immigration policy.The phrase appears at least as far back as 1874, in an editorial published in The Daily State Journal of Alexandria, which praised a bill passed by the Virginia Senate appropriating $15,000 to encourage European immigration. “We are a nation of immigrants and immigrants’ children,” it said.Immigrant advocates today invoke the phrase to remind the country that most Americans have an ancestor who was once a newcomer to the United States.Doris Burke contributed research.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialCongress now appears likely to reach a budget deal to keep the government functioning without treating as bargaining chips hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants brought to the United States when they were children. It also appears, though, that President Trump will consider undoing his threat of deportation for these young “Dreamers” only if Congress considers the first deep cuts to legal immigration since the 1920s.The changes the president is demanding stem from a nativist, zero-sum view that what’s good for immigrants is bad for America. That view runs counter not just to the best of American tradition and principles, but to evidence of what’s best for the country.The programs targeted by Mr. Trump are designed to make legal immigration more diverse and humane. One is the lottery system that offers the chance for visas to people from countries that are underrepresented as sources of American immigrants; the other is family-based immigration, which offers visas to close relatives of citizens and legal residents.Mr. Trump has said that the family reunification program — which he and other immigration opponents prefer to call “chain migration” — opens the floodgates to “virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives.” In fact, relatives other than spouses, parents and minor children are subject to annual caps and country quotas, so that, today, the backlog is almost four million applicants, most of them facing many years of waiting to get a visa. Mr. Trump would allow no new applicants other than immediate family members, and even these would no longer include parents. Imposing these restrictions and ending the diversity visa lottery would cut in half the number of legal immigrants.Politicians have wrestled for decades with how to deal with immigrants who are in the United States illegally — now around 11 million people. But immigration in itself has been widely regarded as good for America and for the American dream. The preponderance of evidence shows that immigrants help the economy grow. They are more likely to own businesses or to start businesses than the native-born; of the 87 privately held companies currently valued at more than $1 billion, 51 percent had immigrant founders.There are questions worth examining and debating about whether the United States ought to admit more skilled immigrants and what criteria it uses to screen applicants. But such a debate can’t unfold in the shadow of Mr. Trump’s threat to imminently expel the Dreamers. So what is Mr. Trump really after?Members of Congress know better, and they are aware that there are sensible measures that would clear the immediate hurdle and produce a bipartisan deal. Senators John McCain, the Arizona Republican, and Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, have offered a stopgap bill that would end the threat to the Dreamers while strengthening border security. Nothing about diversity visas or family-based migration, nothing for the wasteful wall.That makes sense. The way we deal with legal immigration should not be changed without a thorough, honest debate.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSIt is known as the “Einstein visa.” Nuclear scientists, Nobel laureates and doctors get it. But so do acrobats, stunt men, event planners — and plenty of models.Each year, thousands of foreigners try to persuade government officials that they are among the best in their field. The prize if they succeed: a green card, and with it, the right to live permanently in the United States.But several immigration lawyers rebuffed those questions, saying the requirements for the EB-1 immigrant visa leave far more room for interpretation than its nickname and its best-and-brightest reputation suggest.While the program may be the pinnacle of the merit-based immigration policies supported by critics of the visa lottery and family-based migration — indeed, by President Trump himself — the decision of what constitutes merit, while based on established criteria, is ultimately subjective and often surprising.“Recipients are supposed to be the best of the best,” said Rita Sostrin, a Los Angeles-based lawyer who has written extensively about EB-1s, “but meeting the criteria is no guarantee. An adjudication officer makes a judgment call.”The “extraordinary ability” immigrant visa category is one of the few visas for which an applicant does not require an employer or family sponsor. Only 5,530 people received a green card through that program in the fiscal year that ended in September 2016, the latest for which data is available, out of some one million issued. In 2001, when Mrs. Trump got hers, even fewer were granted.Marshall Cohen, a lawyer in Atlanta who specializes in EB-1s for world-ranked track and field athletes, said that he would not have hesitated to represent Mrs. Trump.“I am assuming she made a lot of money, got a lot of press and was on the cover of magazines,” he said. “She was probably a pretty easy case.”Mrs. Trump, then Melania Knauss, appeared on the cover of British GQ in 2000, the year she petitioned for the EB-1, and was featured in Sports Illustrated and other magazines later that year.“Do we need more foreign fashion models? Some might say no,” said Mr. Cohen, who led a panel titled “Proving Extraordinary Ability Is Extraordinarily Challenging” at a recent immigration lawyers’ conference. “We might need more chemical engineers. But if there is a fashion model at the top of her field, she could qualify.”Once those are met, the decision comes down to a vague and undefined “final merits determination” by the immigration agency.“That is the mystery; nobody knows what it is,” said Ms. Sostrin, the lawyer in Los Angeles, who recently secured EB-1s for an award-winning stunt performer and a high-end events planner.What is clear is that extraordinary intelligence is not necessary — nor sufficient on its own — to get one. Indeed, even Albert Einstein might have not qualified for an EB-1 before winning the Nobel Prize.A few years ago, Ms. Sostrin distributed a résumé to immigration lawyers at a conference without revealing that it was Einstein’s, or at least one devised from his career accomplishments. Ms. Sostrin asked them to assess the likelihood that he would be approved for an extraordinary ability visa.The consensus was that it would be very challenging: The résumé, for a tutor and patent examiner turned professor, listed only a handful of the most important scientific works Einstein had published by 1920, more than a decade into his academic career.“The notion that you somehow have to be a genius or Einstein is utter fiction,” said Chris Wright, a lawyer based in Los Angeles. “We have succeeded with models no more accomplished than Melania Trump.”While the majority of applicants and recipients have titles like “space scientist,” “cancer researcher” and “software engineer,” many have less scholarly pursuits. In 2012, Mr. Wright represented Shera Béchard, a Canadian model and Playboy Playmate who successfully petitioned for an EB-1. In her petition, Mr. Wright included scantily clad photographs of Ms. Béchard.“When it’s a glamorous model and pictures show cleavage rather than research, people assume there is something underhanded going on,” said Mr. Wright, who said that he had also obtained the visas for a racecar driver, a hair dresser and a tennis player.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Glenn Boswell, a stunt performer and director used to jumping out of buildings and moving vehicles, getting the EB-1 was a relative cake walk.His lawyer filed a 439-page petition in 2016 detailing Mr. Boswell’s achievements, which include credits in “Unbroken,” “The Matrix” and “The Hobbit,” and he received approval within a week. “I was really excited when it came,” Mr. Boswell, 60, said in a phone interview from his native Australia. He had no idea he had joined an exclusive club.Daniel Riffner, 35, an acrobat for Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas, compiled a dossier in 2009 about his 25-year career, packed with medals, pictures of his high-wire acts and recommendations from coaches. Kinan Azmeh, 41, a Syrian clarinetist in Brooklyn who is a member of Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Ensemble, applied in 2012. Both received green cards.Mr. Trump has championed an immigration overhaul that would replace the current family-based system, which he derides as “chain migration,” with one based on merit, emphasizing skill and educational level. His proposal would have made it impossible for the first lady to sponsor her parents for a green card, which she did after obtaining permanent legal residency and becoming a citizen herself. Meanwhile, highly skilled people, whether scientists or entrepreneurs, often get turned down when they apply to work and live in the country.Especially under the Trump administration, immigration lawyers said, U.S.C.I.S. has made a habit of making requests for further evidence before deciding the fate of an applicant. The lawyers also said that scholars and scientists have a tougher time winning approval than models, actors and athletes.Elissa Taub, a lawyer in Memphis who secured the EB-1 for the German gymnast, said that some of her denials “burn me to this day,” like that of a nuclear astrophysicist who had produced groundbreaking work at a national lab. Immigration officials said his title on the job was not senior enough to merit the EB-1.“We lost a great scientific mind due to this crazy decision,” she said of the scholar, who returned to India.In another case, U.S.C.I.S. acknowledged that a Chinese researcher had fulfilled three criteria to qualify, but that “scientists who have risen to the very top of the field have garnered citations numbered in the thousands,” not in the hundreds, as he had shown. He was denied.Despite ample documentation and detailed letters from world-renowned experts supporting the petition of a molecular oncologist who studies drug-resistant cancer, U.S.C.I.S. questioned whether her scholarship was significant. After her lawyer submitted further evidence, she was approved.“These are people we should be rolling out the red carpet for,” said David Soloway, the lawyer who handled the case.“Most people would readily say that it makes sense for someone who is extraordinarily skilled in the sciences to be admitted to this country,” Mr. Soloway added. “But in modeling? Really?”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Albert Einstein’s record of scientific publication. By 1920, he had published more than 200 works, not a handful. The résumé based on his career to that point that was distributed to immigration lawyers at a conference included seven of his important works, not all he had published.See More »Go to Home Page »“I’m tired of reading about the border in books,” Francisco Cantú says one Christmas Eve to his mother, who is trying to talk him out of joining the Border Patrol. “I know it might be ugly, I know it might be dangerous, but I don’t see any better way to truly understand the place.”She is dubious. She was a ranger at Guadalupe Mountains National Park, east of El Paso, and tells him there are a hundred other ways for the grandson of a Mexican immigrant to comprehend the border than joining a paramilitary bureaucracy. He is adamant: “Maybe it’s the desert, maybe it’s the closeness of life and death, maybe it’s the tension between the two cultures we carry inside us. Whatever it is, I’ll never understand it unless I’m close to it.”So away he goes, down to America’s most potent metaphor, its 2,000-mile partisan fault line. His mother recedes to the story’s margins, returning now and then to prick his conscience, to tell him to mind his soul.“The Line Becomes a River,” Cantú’s account of four years as a border cop in Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, arrives at a dire moment. The national head is spinning with fever visions of brown-skinned alien rapists and beheaders and terror gangs, and of a mythical wall that the president says will protect “us” from “them.” The very idea of an American “us” that includes the foreign-born seems lost to a distant time, to a less terrified country that some of us are struggling to remember.As Cantú tells us what he learned, he bolsters his point — that it’s hard to comprehend the border from books. This one challenges the reader to find the meaning, or some sense, in its loosely strung episodes, fragmentary encounters with border crossers and agents, clippings from books Cantú has read and the surreal dreams that haunt his fretful nights.Cantú finds out that border agents are not so much college boys like him, but former cops and soldiers, migrants from cold climates and crappy jobs. Some new arrivals have no idea what’s going on at the border, but all are primed at the academy for narco warfare, with lurid PowerPoints of people killed by Mexican cartels: heads in an ice chest, bodies stacked in a cattle truck.This is what you’re up against, this is what’s coming, the instructor says.Except it isn’t. The job is often boring, chasing footprints, staring at monitors, shuffling paper. “You don’t want to bring in any bodies with your dope if you can help it,” Cantú is told. “Suspects mean you have a smuggling case on your hands, and that’s a hell of a lot of paperwork.” The aliens we encounter are not narco bosses and murderous kidnappers but their victims: bewildered, disoriented, helpless migrants. Some are dead. They don’t fit the terror profile.A weeping woman tells the agents arresting her that it’s her 23rd birthday. She wants to be like Selena, and sings “Bidi Bidi Bom Bom” on her way to detention. A man found in the fetal position has been drinking his urine for four days. A fat teenager lies sobbing in a mesquite thicket; the group left him behind.Each migrant has a wrenching story, but to agents these are just “wets,” or “POWs,” “plain old wets.” Salvadorans are “el sals.” “Quitters” are just that. Cantú finds two of them huddling in a church, a man and a woman. They had been lost for days, surviving on filthy water from cattle tanks. She is six months pregnant. Cantú gives them water bottles and asks their names, which he soon forgets.In case you think compassion is the rule, Cantú makes a confession.“It’s true that we slash their bottles and drain their water into the dry earth, that we dump their backpacks and pile their food and clothes to be crushed and pissed on and stepped over, strewn across the desert and set ablaze. And Christ, it sounds terrible, and maybe it is.”Maybe?“But the idea is that when they come out from their hiding places, when they regroup and return to find their stockpiles ransacked and stripped, they’ll realize their situation,” he adds, is hopeless. ”And they’ll quit right then and there, they’ll save themselves.” That, says Cantú, is “the sense in it all.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Later Cantú tips us to a secret he couldn’t tell his own family — that he and his brother agents ran like a mob of teenage vandals:“I wanted to tell my uncle that I had known men to engage in senseless acts of defilement, depositing car seats and furniture on far-off hillsides and in remote washes, decorating cacti with women’s undergarments, hanging twisted bike frames from the towering arms of saguaros, dislodging massive boulders to tumble down sloping mountainsides, and setting fire to anything that would burn — abandoned automobiles and trash piles and proud desert plants left to smoke and smolder through the night.”They sound like poorly trained men with not enough to do. Yet this is a glancing admission, slipped passively into the narrative without elaboration. Cantú recounts moments of tender connection with frightened, injured border crossers. But he seems unwilling to look too closely at his complicity in despicable behavior, leaving a reader to worry about the fate of that close-up quest for enlightenment he told his mother he was after.We surmise early on that Cantú, his psyche under strain, is not long for the job. He loses sleep, he grinds his teeth, he has bad dreams about wolves.Then the book shifts abruptly. Cantú leaves the agency. Now he’s a barista and studying for a master’s degree. But here, finally, he takes us deep into a border story — that of his new friend José, 30 years in the United States, nabbed by the Border Patrol after returning from Mexico, where he had gone to see his dying mother. The last third of the book, as José and his family desperately fight his deportation, with Cantú’s considerable help, makes a useful contribution to the literature of today’s border. It lays bare, in damning light, the casual brutality of the system, how unjust laws and private prisons and a militarized border have shattered families and mocked America’s myths about itself.“We mostly arrested the little people,” Cantú tells José. “Smugglers, scouts, mules, coyotes. But mostly I arrested migrants, I confessed. People looking for a better life.” He should have listened to his mother.Lawrence Downes, a writer and editor, covered immigration and politics for The Times’s editorial board from 2004 to 2017.See More »We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »Supported byThe argument-ending rejoinders ran as follows: Trump is a racist, Miller is a racist, and making major deals with them normalizes presidential bigotry. Since I agree that Trump’s race-baiting is disgraceful, I respect that rejoinder, and I don’t think my own arguments are likely to dislodge people from a firm point of moral principle.But another kind of response is worth disputing. Instead of making a moral judgment, it purports to make an empirical one, implying that the serious case for immigration restriction is all but nonexistent, and that negotiating with restrictionists is therefore like negotiating with flat-earthers.I want to challenge this view by expanding on two points that I mentioned last week, both of which offer reasons to regard immigration as a normal policy question with costs as well as benefits to any course you choose.… And they do so out of sight and mind for the winners in this system, who inhabit a world where they only see their fellow winners and their hard-working multiethnic service class. Which in turn encourages them toward mild contempt for their fellow countrymen who don’t want to live under a cosmopolitan-ruled caste system, who feel alienated from the Californian or Parisian future.In both cases there’s a fantasy of replacement that’s politically corrosive, and that’s one reason why Donald Trump is president and Jeb! and Hillary are not.Now all of the foregoing is one-sided. It leaves out the real advantages of immigration, economic and humanitarian, which are part of the policy calculus as well — as is the recent decline in illegal immigration, and the fact that the problems I’ve identified are more manageable in America than Europe. Hence my own view that keeping current immigration levels while bringing in more immigrants to compete with our economy’s winners and fewer to compete for low-wage work represents a reasonable middle ground.But the calculus is not simple, a middle ground is actually worth seeking, and recent immigration plays a role not only in America’s greatness, but in our divisions and disappointments as well.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialThis past week was meant to be dedicated to a rare open debate on immigration in the Senate, and once again, centrist Democrats and Republicans proposed a pair of similar and reasonable compromises on what has arguably become the most charged issue of the day. Alas, they both fell before the anti-immigration furor of the Trump administration. But then President Trump’s own hard-line immigration bill fell much harder, leaving the fate of the so-called Dreamers in limbo.Now that the senators have witnessed a decisive bipartisan rejection of Mr. Trump’s get-tough approach, they might see their way to reconsider a more modest measure that takes the Dreamers out of limbo and enhances security. A deal, in other words, that actually does something about the system beyond cruelly using immigrants as pawns in political games and forever blaming the other side.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe president wants merit-based migration. But what counts as merit? We also report on the shooting at a Florida school in which at least 17 people died.President Trump has called for an overhaul of immigration that replaces a family-based system with a merit-based one. But what counts as merit?We also report on the shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla. At least 17 people are dead. It was the 18th school shooting in the United States this year.On today’s episode:Background reading:If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Caitlin Dickerson and Catherine Porter contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorSANTIAGO, Chile — Chile, like numerous other countries, has been debating whether to welcome migrants — mostly from Haiti, Colombia, Peru and Venezuela — or to keep them out. Although only half a million immigrants live in this nation of 17.7 million, right-wing politicians have stoked anti-immigrant sentiment, opposed the increased rates of immigration in the past decade and directed bile especially against Haitian immigrants.Chileans aren’t alone in witnessing growing xenophobia and nativism, but we would do well to remember our own history, which offers a model for how to act when we are confronted with strangers seeking sanctuary.On Aug. 4, 1939, the Winnipeg set sail for Chile from the French port of Pauillac with more than 2,000 refugees who had fled their Spanish homeland.A few months earlier, Gen. Francisco Franco — aided by Mussolini and Hitler — had defeated the forces of the democratically elected government of Spain. The fascists unleashed a wave of violence and murder.Among the hundreds of thousands of desperate supporters of the Spanish Republic who had crossed the Pyrenees to escape that onslaught were the men, women and children who would board the Winnipeg and arrive a month later at the Chilean port of Valparaíso.The person responsible for their miraculous escape was Pablo Neruda, who, at the age of 34, was already considered Chile’s greatest poet. His prestige in 1939 was indeed significant enough for him to be able to persuade Chile’s president, Pedro Aguirre Cerda, that it was imperative for their small country to offer asylum to some of the mistreated Spanish patriots rotting in French internment camps.Not only would this set a humanitarian example, Neruda said, but it would also provide Chile with much needed foreign expertise and talent for its own development. The president agreed to authorize some visas, but the poet himself would have to find the funds for the costly fares of those émigrés as well as for food and lodging during their first six months in the country. And Neruda, once he was in France coordinating the operation, needed to vet the émigrés to ensure they possessed the best technical skills and unimpeachable moral character.An unrelenting nativist campaign by right-wing parties and their media, sensing a chance to attack the president’s Popular Front government, painted the prospective asylum seekers as “undesirables”: rapists, criminals, anti-Christian agitators whose presence, according to one chauvinistic editorial in Chile’s leading conservative paper, would be “incompatible with social tranquillity and the best manners.”Neruda realized that it would be cheaper to charter a ship and fill it up with the refugees than to send them, one family at a time, to Chile. The Winnipeg was available but since it was a cargo boat it had to be refurbished to accommodate some 2,000 passengers with berths, canteens for meals, an infirmary, a nursery for the very young and, of course, latrines.While volunteers from the French Communist Party worked around the clock to ready the vessel, Neruda was gathering donations from all over Latin America — and from friends like Pablo Picasso — to finance the increasingly exorbitant enterprise. Time was short: Europe was bracing for war, and bureaucrats in Santiago and Paris were sabotaging the effort. With only half the cash in hand one month before the ship was set to sail, a group of American Quakers unexpectedly offered to supply the rest of the required funds.Through it all, Neruda was fueled by his love for Spain and his compassion for the victims of fascism, including one of his best friends, the poet Federico García Lorca, who had been murdered by a fascist death squad in 1936.As Chile’s consul during the early years of the Spanish Republic, Neruda had witnessed the bombardment of Madrid. The destruction of that city he loved and the assault upon culture and freedom were to mark him for the rest of his life and drastically change his literary priorities.After the fall of the Republic, he declared, “I swear to defend until my death what has been murdered in Spain: the right to happiness.” No wonder he proclaimed the Winnipeg to have been his “most beautiful poem” as it steamed away — without him or his wife, as they did not want to occupy space that was better occupied by those whose lives were in danger.And when that magnificent, gigantic, floating “poem” of his, after a hazardous voyage, finally reached Valparaíso, its passengers — despite the protests of right-wing nationalists and Nazi sympathizers — were given a welcome befitting heroes.Awaiting the penniless survivors of Franco’s legions was President Aguirre Cerda’s personal representative — his health minister, a young doctor named Salvador Allende. Cheering crowds amassed on the dock, singing Spanish songs of resistance, gathered to greet the refugees, some of whom already had jobs lined up.The refugees who came ashore on the Winnipeg would go on to help fashion a more prosperous, open and inventive Chile. They included the historian Leopoldo Castedo, the book designer Mauricio Amster, the playwright and essayist José Ricardo Morales and the painters Roser Bru and José Balmes.Almost 80 years later, those undesirables pose disturbing questions for us, both in Chile and elsewhere. Where are the presidents who welcome destitute refugees with open arms despite the most virulent slander against them? Where are the Nerudas of yesteryear, ready to launch ships like poems to defend the right to happiness?Ariel Dorfman is the author of the book of essays “Homeland Security Ate My Speech” and the novel “Darwin’s Ghosts.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Although Mr. Homan and other federal officials have warned about targeting California as it steps up immigration enforcement efforts, the number of people arrested has not drastically increased so far. In December, the most recent month for which data is available, 1,715 unauthorized immigrants in California were arrested by ICE, compared with 1,379 in December 2016.In a call with reporters on Tuesday night, Mr. Becerra said that he was confident California would prevail in court and that state and federal laws were not in conflict.“In California, our state laws work in concert with federal law,” he said. “Our teams work together to go after drug dealers and go after gang violence. What we won’t do is change from being focused on public safety. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”Mr. Becerra said that he was not surprised by the news of the lawsuit and that the state had already won legal battles against the Trump administration. “We’ve seen this B-rated movie before,” he said. “We’re not doing their bidding on immigration enforcement and deportation.”Katie Benner reported from Washington, and Jennifer Medina from Los Angeles.See More »Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES — Three immigration agents showed up last month at Poindexter Nut Company, which processes walnuts for 300 growers in California’s Central Valley, demanding payroll records to verify whether its employees were authorized to work in the United States.To comply with federal law, Mike Poindexter began amassing documents to turn over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement. To comply with a new state law, he posted a notice above the time clock informing workers that ICE was auditing their employment records, a process that could take months.Immediately, workers began resigning, and Mr. Poindexter signed their last pay checks.“I am a pawn caught between the federal and state governments, like a child between two fighting parents,” said Mr. Poindexter, the company’s chief executive. “Each is threatening to punish me if I don’t listen.”The fight has energized partisans on each side. And it has squeezed those in the middle like Mr. Poindexter — the people directly affected by the laws.It also requires them to post notices alerting workers that ICE will be reviewing records — a tip-off to those who may not be legally allowed to work. Any company found violating the law faces fines of $2,000 to $10,000.Several workplaces visited by ICE have lost workers, or customers, since it began targeting businesses in late January, and before the audits were even completed. Agriculture, a state economic powerhouse, has been especially hard hit.California farms are heavily dependent on immigrants to fill their physically demanding and often low-paid jobs, and it is no secret that many of those immigrants are in the country illegally.Employers contend that they have no way of knowing when a worker submits a fake Social Security number on their I-9 forms, the federal document on which employees attest they are citizens or otherwise legal. Supporters of tougher immigration enforcement say that employers are just winking at the issue.A common way for the government to root out illegal labor is to audit companies’ I-9 records. By federal law, ICE sends companies a letter before beginning an audit, and by the new state law, companies must pass that news on to their employees.“I resigned out of fear,” said the worker, Ana, who asked that her surname be withheld because she is undocumented. She said she hung on until Feb. 16, close to the deadline for the company to submit paperwork to ICE, so she could make another month’s rent. (The company said it was complying with state and federal laws regarding the ICE audit, but declined to comment further.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There is fear and hysteria,” he said.ICE has also stepped up activity in urban areas, conducting sweeps and delivering audit notices to hundreds of businesses in San Francisco, Oakland and Los Angeles.Reyna Guardado, the owner of El Guanaquito Pupuseria, a restaurant in Riverside County, said that all of her workers are family members with green cards or citizenship. But the moment a pair of agents, donning flak jackets emblazoned with “ICE,” set foot there to serve her an I-9 audit notice, her patrons dispersed. “Everybody knows ICE was here,” she said.Even before the law, many of the state’s largest agencies, like the Los Angeles and San Francisco Police Departments, limited their work with ICE. But agencies in more conservative areas have had to change their practices.The California State Sheriffs’ Association was one of the most vocal opponents of the law. “What used to happen is that I would hand someone off while they were in custody, ICE would escort them out and they would be gone,” said Sheriff Donny Youngblood of Kern County, who was president of the association last year. “Now we have to turn them loose.”Last year, before the law took effect, the Orange County Sheriff’s Department turned over about 370 undocumented immigrants from county custody to federal authorities, said Sheriff Sandra Hutchens.“Now those people are going back into the community,” Sheriff Hutchens said. “We haven’t had any horrible incident that has occurred yet, but when that happens, the community is going to say to me, ‘Why were they released?’”The law on employer cooperation helps immigrant workers learn their rights and seek legal help if necessary, its supporters say. “The law works first and foremost to protect Californians’ privacy at the workplace,” said Sarah Lovenheim, a spokeswoman for Xavier Becerra, the Democratic state attorney general. She said she could not divulge whether the office had received any complaints about companies violating the law.Mr. Poindexter, the walnut processor, said he considered himself fortunate that the audit came after the harvest. But his plant operates year-round, and he is eager for ICE to finish its work so he can replace the lost workers before the fall harvest. “There is no point in hiring people with this cloud hanging over us,” he said.Some business owners even wondered if California’s attempts to protect undocumented immigrants were having the opposite effect.“I don’t think the state is helping employers or workers; they are making it worse,” said Karen Musson, who owns Gar Tootelian, a fertilizer retailer that serves 1,500 growers in Fresno County. “We are attracting ICE agents because California drew a line in the sand.”Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeThe federal government said on Saturday that it would resume accepting renewal requests for a program that shields from deportation young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children.The agency said on Saturday that people who were previously granted deferred action under the program could request a renewal if it had expired on or after Sept. 5, 2016. People who had previously received DACA, but whose deferred action had expired before Sept. 5, 2016, cannot renew, but can instead file a new request, the agency said. It noted that the same instructions apply to anyone whose deferred action had been terminated.But officials also said they were not accepting requests from individuals who have never been granted deferred action under DACA.Critics of the president’s decision to end the policy later sued the administration, saying that shutting down the program was arbitrary and done without following the proper legal procedures.The legal battle is one piece of a fierce debate in Washington. Democrats and Republicans have sparred for months about how to provide relief for about 800,000 immigrants who could face deportation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Later that day, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco handed down his ruling, writing that the administration must “maintain the DACA program on a nationwide basis” as the legal challenge to the president’s decision goes forward.In his ruling, Judge Alsup laid out a road map for the government that officials appeared to follow. He said that previous beneficiaries of DACA, known as Dreamers, must be allowed to renew their status in the program, though the government would not be required to accept new applications from immigrants who had not previously submitted one.On Sunday morning, Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for preventing progress on a legislative deal that would permanently legalize the young immigrants and give them an eventual path to citizenship in exchange for tougher border security and enforcement measures.The president criticized Democratic lawmakers, some of whom have suggested that they will not support efforts to fund the government by a deadline later this week unless Congress passes the DACA legislation.“DACA is probably dead because the Democrats don’t really want it, they just want to talk and take desperately needed money away from our Military,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla.In a second tweet, Mr. Trump said that immigration legislation should include an end to the diversity visa lottery system, in which the State Department encourages diversity in immigration by holding a lottery for those wanting to come to the United States.The president has criticized the program as a threat to the country’s security even though people selected are screened in the same ways that other immigrants are. Mr. Trump has also said that the program undermines efforts by the administration to allow immigrants who have skills that will be beneficial to the United States.“I, as President, want people coming into our Country who are going to help us become strong and great again, people coming in through a system based on MERIT,” he said. “No more Lotteries! #AMERICA FIRST.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump (all times local):4:55 p.m.The White House says President Donald Trump was referring to the plight faced by migrants when he said those who make the journey to the U.S. from Mexico are "raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before."Trump said Thursday at a tax event in West Virginia that "yesterday it came out" that during "this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before."Trump had previously mentioned a caravan of migrants working its way north through Mexico, so it appeared to some that he was suggesting the caravan was besieged by violence.But White House spokesman Hogan Gidley says it has been "a widely reported fact for years" that there is "extensive and extreme victimization of those making the journey north with coyotes/smugglers in general."___3:15 p.m.President Donald Trump is alleging without evidence that voter fraud is a huge problem in California.At a tax event in West Virginia on Thursday, Trump says that "in many places, like California, the same person votes many times."He says, "They always like to say, 'Oh, that's a conspiracy theory.' Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people."After the 2016 election, Trump alleged repeatedly and without evidence that voting fraud cost him the popular vote. Earlier this year he disbanded a voter fraud commission amid infighting and lawsuits as state officials refused to cooperate.While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., past studies have found it to be rare.___3:10 p.m.President Donald Trump is seething over immigration policies at a tax event in West Virginia.Trump on Thursday complained about catch-and-release policies and family based migration, in which immigrants sponsor their relatives to join them in the U.S.Trump also noted he'd been criticized for saying in his campaign kickoff speech that Mexico was sending rapists across the border. But he says that "yesterday it came out" that during "this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before."It's unclear what he was referring to, but a White House spokesman pointed to past reports of women being raped by smugglers.Trump announced this week that he was requesting the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.___2:45 p.m.President Donald Trump is taking shots at Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin while visiting West Virginia.Speaking at a tax event Thursday, Trump referenced the fact that Manchin did not vote for his tax plan. He told the audience that they would get "a chance to get a senator that's going to vote our program." He added that "you're not getting that help right now."Trump says: "Joe Manchin, he's really not helped us."Six Republicans are competing in a GOP primary to challenge Manchin, who is running for re-election. Trump easily carried the state in 2016.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump plans to see two GOP Senate candidates during his visit to West Virginia.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump is scheduled to hold a discussion on taxes in White Sulphur Springs later Thursday.Among those expected to attend are a congressman, Evan Jenkins, and the state's attorney general, Patrick Morrisey.They're among six Republicans competing in the May 8 for the party's Senate nomination. The incumbent is Democrat Joe Manchin, who is seeking another term in November.Trump, who overwhelmingly won West Virginia in the 2016 president election, has stayed neutral in the Senate primary so far.___10:50 a.m.President Donald Trump is ready to discuss his tax overhaul with business owners and families in West Virginia.The White House says Trump will hear from West Virginia companies that provided benefits to workers due to the tax law, as well as from families and elected officials. The companies include two community banks and a truck dealership.Republican officials expected to attend include the governor, Jim Justice, and Sen. Shelley Moore Capito.Trump signed the $1.5 trillion tax package into law in December. The Republican measure cut taxes on corporations and the wealthy, and gave more modest savings for many middle-class and lower-income Americans.The trip marks Trump's fourth visit to the state as president.___9:25 a.m.The Trump administration hasn't determined how many troops it will seek to have deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border.That's according to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen. She says: "We're going to be sending as many troops as we need."President Donald Trump has signed a memo clearing the way for the deployment of National Guard troops to the border. Ultimately, it will be up to the four border-state governors to finalize the numbers and precise timing.Nielsen says the administration wants the National Guard's help providing surveillance along the border and maintenance for border patrol vehicles and aircraft to free up law enforcement assets for securing the border.Nielsen says she'll be speaking again Thursday with California Gov. Jerry Brown about earning his support for the deployment.___8:05 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the Mexican government for breaking up a "caravan" of Central American migrants and avoiding "a giant scene" at the U.S. border.In a tweet, the president credits "the strong immigration laws of Mexico and their willingness to use them." The tweet comes hours after Trump signed a proclamation directing the deployment of National Guard troops to assist in securing the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump has seized on news reports that the migrant group was traveling toward the U.S. Organizers of the migrant group said they never intended to reach the U.S. border.Trump adds that "Border crossings are at a still UNACCEPTABLE 46 year low."___1:32 a.m.President Donald Trump has signed a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen says she's been working with governors of the southwest border states to develop agreements on where and how many Guardsmen will be deployed.Go to Home Page »As futile as it can feel, there’s a lot to be said for frustration. Having our desires and expectations thwarted lets us know where our selves end and where others’ begin. “People become real to us by frustrating us,” the psychoanalyst (and master aphorist) Adam Phillips writes. “If they don’t frustrate us they are merely figures of fantasy.”It’s a testament to Lauren Hilgers’s rich and absorbing “Patriot Number One: American Dreams in Chinatown” that the patriot of her title, a Chinese activist and immigrant named Zhuang Liehong, comes across as frustrating and, at times, downright infuriating. But Zhuang is also determined and dreamy, suspicious and generous — he becomes real to us, in other words, an inextricable combination of noble and naïve.Hilgers, a New York-based journalist who lived in Shanghai for six years, has written a penetrating profile of a man and much more besides: an indelible portrait of his wife and their marriage; a canny depiction of Flushing, Queens; a lucid anatomy of Chinese politics and America’s immigration system. Such a comprehensive project could have easily sprawled across a book twice as long, but “Patriot Number One” stays close to the people it follows, in a narrative as evocative and engrossing as a novel.We first meet Zhuang in early 2013, when he’s still moored in the village of Wukan, an outpost of booming Guangdong Province, planning his escape. “He suffered from the occasional lapse in reading social cues and fought it with volume, warmth and a strong handshake,” Hilgers writes, in a characteristically vivid description. His audacity had already made him a hero. A little more than a year before, he started an unlikely rebellion after discovering that local officials had been selling off the villagers’ land without their knowledge. Since then, he anticipated a government crackdown, and if he had to leave his beloved Wukan, there was only one place he wanted to go.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Needless to say, his fantasy of America founders once he reaches its rough shores. And it’s then, when the country frustrates him, that life in America becomes palpable, and exceedingly real.Zhuang and his wife, Little Yan, neither of whom speak any English, wait for their asylum applications to come through while they try to eke out a new life in Flushing after arriving on a tourist visa. Little Yan, unrelentingly practical and resigned to “eating bitter,” immediately starts to work in a nail salon; Zhuang, meanwhile, keeps telling her she should quit her job because he’s perpetually on the verge of something big. Ever entrepreneurial, he pursues a number of moneymaking schemes, including a logistically convoluted and barely profitable personal-shopping business, schlepping to an outlet mall north of the city to buy up discounted designer goods and resell them to moneyed customers back in China.Hilgers observes all of this with a sharp eye and an open heart. She follows Zhuang and Little Yan around, together and separately, becoming privy to their daily routines and their candid thoughts about America and each other. But Hilgers isn’t in this book more than she needs to be. Aside from hosting the couple in her Brooklyn apartment when they first arrive — the inquisitive Zhuang is curious about everything, including why she owns more than one kitchen knife — Hilgers recedes into the background, the better to let them speak for themselves.Unlike a number of other asylum-seekers from China, Zhuang and Little Yan are in a relatively privileged position: They arrive flush with savings from a land sale, and without crushing debts. At the same time, they have no family, no ready-made network to show them how anything is done. Zhuang never finished middle school. Not to mention that New York City is an extraordinarily expensive place to live.It takes them 18 months to get permission to bring over their son, whom they left with Little Yan’s family when they traveled to the United States. He was a baby at the time, and has spent half his life apart from his parents. The scene of the couple meeting their son at Kennedy Airport is all the more wrenching for Hilgers’s understated description of what she sees: “When Little Yan reached her hand out to him, he shook his head and backed up a step. He looked up at her as if she were a giant.”Hilgers widens her lens to include other Chinese émigrés, and she offers historical context too, including the codified bigotry of the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act, which placed a 10-year moratorium on immigration by Chinese laborers. She weaves the details into a chapter on Tang Yuanjun, the chairman for Flushing’s Chinese Democracy Parties, who leads a monthly protest in front of the Chinese consulate in Manhattan. After spending eight years in a Chinese prison for his dissident work, he escaped by swimming to Taiwan from a fishing boat.Despite what amounts to little more than a cameo appearance, Tang is an intriguing character, and he has some of the best quotes in the book. He continues to be a committed activist even as he gains the realism and perspective of someone who, in his late 50s, has seen it all. He knows people might claim asylum for all sorts of reasons. Still, he hopes that even those whose dissident credentials are less than sterling might learn a thing or two about democracy by attending his meetings. “People are complicated,” Tang says. “If you say they are here for their asylum case, that’s not true. But if you say they are not here for their asylum case, that’s not true.”Zhuang’s own activist credentials are never in doubt. If anything, without a good fight to sustain him he begins to drift, and it’s only when Wukan needs him again that he gets a renewed sense of purpose. By the end of the book, he’s traveling across the United States, protesting another government crackdown on his village.Tang tells Hilgers that the trajectory for a new émigré tends to follow a certain arc: “In the first year you speak brave, bold words. In the second, nonsense. By the third, you have nothing to say at all.” That doesn’t hold true for Zhuang, who frustrates expectations at every turn.See More »Go to Home Page »In a story April 1 about the Trump administration's treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must take effect, though the administration has not approved any applications and says it will rescind the program.A corrected version of the story is below:Trump says he wants skilled migrants but creates new hurdlesTrump wants the US immigration system to focus on skills instead of family ties, but his administration is making it harder on skilled immigrantsBy NICHOLAS RICCARDIAssociated PressIt may be a while before President Donald Trump gets another chance at creating a new, "merit-based" immigration system, a keystone of his four-part plan that Congress rejected last month. In the meantime, his administration is busy making it harder, not easier, for skilled migrants to come work in the United States.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program to admit foreign entrepreneurs who want to start companies in the United States. It is more aggressively scrutinizing visas to skilled workers from other countries. And it is contemplating ending a provision that allows spouses of those skilled workers to be employed in the U.S.The administration and its backers contend it's trying to fix flaws in the existing, employer-centric skilled immigration system while advocating for a complete overhaul of America's immigration system."The stuff that they're actually doing is not so much restricting skilled immigration as enforcing the law," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports reducing immigration. "They're rolling back some of the extralegal measures that other administrations have taken."A primary avenue for skilled immigrants to enter the United States is the H1B visa for specialty workers, which is heavily used by the technology industry. About 85,000 visas are issued annually in a lottery system. Some critics argue they are a way for companies to avoid hiring U.S. citizens; Trump himself has said H1B recipients shouldn't even be considered skilled.In 2016, two technology workers sued Disney, alleging 250 U.S. employees were laid off and many were forced to train replacements who were hired on H1B visas. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, saying Disney was following existing immigration laws.The Trump administration has increased its scrutiny of H1B applications, requiring renewals be submitted in person and asking for additional proof the workers are needed and are being paid top tier."This increase reflects our commitment to protecting the integrity of the immigration system," said Joanne Fereirra, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. She added that 92.5 percent of the visas are still approved, only two percentage points lower than under the Obama administration in 2016.Still, businesses have noticed a change."We've got employees that are going through the process, who have gone through such a level of scrutiny and interrogatory that is unprecedented," said Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which advocates for H1B visas and has had one of its own workers have to move back overseas because of delays in approving the requisite visa.The extra time with H1B visas is only part of the administration's changes to skilled, work-based immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Trump signed an executive order that directed all government agencies to "rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into the United States of workers from abroad" to ensure the maximum number of U.S. citizens have jobs. The order also called for shifting H1Bs from lower-paid workers to higher-paid ones who truly have skills that can't be obtained from the native workforce.The administration also moved to stop an Obama administration program that was about to start last year to let international entrepreneurs who start companies in the United States live in the country for renewable, 30-month stints. Though a judge in December blocked the government's effort prevent the program from taking effect, the Trump administration says it has not approved any of the about 10 entries it has received and still plans to end the program.Also in December, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security released its new regulatory agenda which included further, unspecified changes to the H1B program. The administration also indicated it will roll back the STEM OPT program expanded by President Barack Obama that lets international science and technology students work legally in the U.S. for up to three years.Meanwhile, the State Department said last week it is seeking to further enhance vetting of potential immigrants and visitors by requiring all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers — information that was previously sought only from applicants identified for extra scrutiny. The department estimates 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants will be affected annually.Akash Negi, 26, graduated last month with a master's in sciences and analytics from Pennsylvania's Harrisburg University of Science and Technology that he earned while working as a big data analyst at JP Morgan Chase. Negi moved to the United States after his father got a diplomatic visa as part of a job at the United Nations, but his legal residency doesn't include a work permit.He was able to work while a student but is waiting for his STEM OPT visa to remain employed, and is concerned Trump will gut the program.Negi noted he understands Trump's stated goals of protecting U.S. workers but says he's going about it incorrectly."Any country wants to protect its own citizens, but you don't just end the program when you don't have your own population trained," Negi said.The Trump administration has also signaled it may end another Obama-era program that allowed spouses of H1B visa holders to work legally in the U.S. Many of these people have been in the U.S. for years, sometimes long enough to have children who are now U.S. citizens, yet can face a decades-long wait for a green card. The prospect of being unable to work is a shock to them."I would like to make my own living. I am qualified and skilled," said Anushri Maru, 35, a business analyst in Houston, adding she's baffled her new home doesn't want her talents. "I'm not sure they understand that we are skilled immigrants."Go to Home Page »For a year, immigration agents have been enforcing the Trump administration’s orders to deport noncitizens at full speed with but one roadblock: the federal courts.The immigration activist Ravi Ragbir was scheduled to be deported to Trinidad and Tobago on Saturday, but that was put on hold when his lawyers filed a lawsuit in Manhattan on Thursday. The government agreed to delay his removal until the court can decide whether his rights have been violated.These federal judges are not deciding immigration cases, over which they have no jurisdiction, but rather giving people time to fight in the immigration courts. They are slowing deportations by insisting that undocumented immigrants still have the right of due process, even if in many of these cases, the immigrants had known for years that they could be expelled.Immigration officials offered sharp rebukes to the judges on Friday.“I am increasingly troubled by orders from federal judges halting the deportation of certain groups of individuals, all of which appear to ignore the fact that each alien in question was lawfully ordered removed from the United States after full and fair proceedings, many of which lasted several years or longer, at great taxpayer expense,” said Thomas D. Homan, the deputy director of the United States Customs and Immigration Enforcement agency, known as ICE.“Further, these orders hinder ICE’s efforts to address the clear public safety threat posed by many of these aliens — the majority of whom have criminal convictions,” he said. “Of course, entering the United States illegally is, itself, a crime.”Lee Gelernt, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, countered that the Trump administration is moving “abruptly” to deport the immigrants “without giving them a fair chance to go to immigration court.”He said he thought judges were “being very careful not to go beyond what they have legal authority of what they can do.”Consider the case of Mr. Ragbir, 53, who had a green card when he was convicted of wire fraud in 2000. After serving a prison sentence, he was first ordered deported in 2006, detained and then released on an order of supervision while he appealed his case. Mr. Ragbir since 2011 had checked in periodically with ICE, which continued to allow him to stay in the country.Then, at his Jan. 11 check-in, ICE detained him, saying he had exhausted his appeals, and took him for deportation. His defense team filed several challenges to keep Mr. Ragbir in the country.At the end of January, Judge Katherine B. Forrest of the Federal District Court in Manhattan ordered Mr. Ragbir released from detention and his deportation delayed. The government, she said, had denied him his right of due process, namely, “the freedom to say goodbye.”With rhetorical flourish that drew the ire of ICE, Judge Forrest, an appointee of President Barack Obama, also compared the United States to “regimes we revile” for what she deemed was “unnecessarily cruel” treatment of Mr. Ragbir.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.ICE then scheduled his deportation for Feb. 10.On Thursday, Mr. Ragbir’s lawyers filed a First Amendment suit claiming that ICE had targeted their client because he was an outspoken activist as the director of the New Sanctuary Coalition of New York City.Matthew T. Albence, the executive associate director of enforcement and removal operations for ICE, denied that charge. “U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement does not target unlawfully present aliens for arrest based on advocacy positions they hold or in retaliation for critical comments they make,” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion to the contrary is irresponsible, speculative and inaccurate.”On Friday morning, Mr. Ragbir’s lawyers argued in Federal District Court in Newark for a separate stay of deportation so that Judge Kevin McNulty could consider vacating his criminal conviction. Mr. Ragbir’s lawyers claim there were errors at his trial.Judge McNulty, who was appointed by President Obama, said he would take advantage of the pending case in Manhattan to take time to rule, first on his jurisdiction in Mr. Ragbir’s case. “The damage he’d suffer, and the injury he’d suffer, as a result of deportation, is obvious to me,” Judge McNulty said during the hearing.The New Jersey district court also issued a temporary hold on deportations of a group of Indonesian immigrants. Two Indonesian fathers were suddenly arrested by ICE on Jan. 25 after dropping their children at school. Two others took sanctuary in their church, the Reformed Church of Highland Park, including Harry Pangemanan, who had helped rebuild more than 200 homes after Hurricane Sandy.Judge Esther Salas, an appointee of President Obama, declared on Feb. 2 that the Indonesians could not be deported until she could hear the case.But last summer, ICE began ordering the deportations of Indonesian Christians.Lawyers argued, however, that conditions in the Muslim-majority country had since deteriorated for Christians, so much so they could be tortured if they returned. The government, under the United Nations Convention Against Torture, is required to assess the danger for immigrants before it deports them.In Boston, District Court Judge Patti Saris, an appointee of President Bill Clinton, ruled on Feb. 1 to temporarily halt the deportation of a group of Indonesians who had been living in New Hampshire.In a hearing Jan. 17, she told the government lawyers that she had not even had a chance to read a petition filed by the Indonesians’ A.C.L.U. lawyers. “You’re moving so fast to get them out of here,” Judge Saris said.The government has appealed.In Los Angeles, District Court Judge Cormac Carney, an appointee of President George W. Bush, stopped the deportation of hundreds of Cambodians in December. Many had been living for decades in the country after fleeing the Khmer Rouge and during that time had been convicted of various crimes. Nonetheless, Judge Carney said, they had rights.Stephen H. Legomsky, a professor of immigration law at Washington University School of Law in St. Louis, said judges appear to be more active only because they are responding to the aggressiveness of immigration officials.“Generally, when the political branches do extreme things,” he said, “judges will respond with more and more constraints.”John Surico contributed reporting from Newark.Follow Liz Robbins on Twitter: @nytlizrobbins.See More »Go to Home Page »Federal immigration agents descended on dozens of 7-Eleven convenience stores across the country before daybreak on Wednesday, arresting undocumented workers and demanding paperwork from managers, in what the Trump administration described as its largest enforcement operation against employers so far.The sweeps of 98 stores in 17 states, from California to Florida, resulted in 21 arrests, according to United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which signaled intensified efforts against businesses that hire unauthorized workers.“Today’s actions send a strong message to U.S. businesses that hire and employ an illegal work force: ICE will enforce the law, and if you are found to be breaking the law, you will be held accountable,” Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of the agency, said in a statement.Mr. Homan, the nation’s top immigration-enforcement official, has promised more scrutiny of businesses that knowingly violate federal laws requiring employers to verify the identity and employment eligibility of their workers.Under President Trump, ICE has significantly expanded immigration enforcement, arresting undocumented immigrants in their homes or when they check in with federal agents as part of immigration court cases.In a statement, 7-Eleven Inc., based in Irving, Tex., distanced itself from the situation, saying that the individual stores are franchises that belong to independent business owners, who “are solely responsible for their employees, including deciding who to hire and verifying their eligibility to work in the United States.”“7-Eleven takes compliance with immigration laws seriously and has terminated the franchise agreements of franchisees convicted of violating these laws,” the company said.If ICE hoped to make a bold statement, it could hardly pick a more iconic target than 7-Eleven, a chain known for ubiquitous stores that are open all the time and sell the much-loved Slurpees and Big Gulps. Many a 7-Eleven franchise has been a steppingstone for new legal immigrants who want to own and run their own small businesses.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This definitely sends a message to employers,” said Ira Mehlman, the spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors more limits on immigration and stricter enforcement.According to ICE, federal agents served inspection notices to 7-Eleven franchises in California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington State and Washington, D.C.Employees at two 7-Eleven stores on Staten Island said that immigration agents visited the stores on Wednesday. But the agents were shown valid employment records with Social Security numbers, two workers at each of the stores said, and no one was arrested.In all, 16 of the 98 stores visited on Wednesday were in the New York City area, according to an ICE spokeswoman, Rachael Yong Yow, who would not specify their locations.In Miami Beach, an employee at one 7-Eleven said that while no agents showed up at her store, her boss asked workers to make sure their employment records were up to date, in case ICE continued its visits. Agents dropped in on 7-Eleven stores in seven cities in southeast Florida, including Miami Beach, according to Nestor Yglesias, an ICE spokesman; he, too, declined to identify specific stores.Under President George W. Bush, ICE grabbed headlines by rounding up unauthorized workers at meatpacking plants, fruit suppliers, carwashes and residences. In a shift, the agency under President Barack Obama focused on catching border crossers, deporting convicted criminals and pursuing employers on paper, by inspecting the I-9 forms that employers are required to fill out and keep to verify their workers’ eligibility.By targeting 7-Eleven franchisees and their workers on Wednesday, ICE under Mr. Trump appeared to be melding the approaches of his two predecessors: Go after employers while also detaining employees whom agents encountered without work authorization.One of the biggest workplace immigration raids, in May 2008, resulted in the detention of nearly 400 undocumented immigrants, including several children, at an Iowa meatpacking plant. Sholom Rubashkin, the chief executive of the Agriprocessors plant, which was then the largest kosher meatpacking operation in the country, was eventually convicted of bank fraud in federal court.An earlier version of this article misstated when nearly 400 people were detained in an immigration raid at an Iowa meatpacking plant. The raid was in May 2008, not July.Follow Patricia Mazzei on Twitter: @PatriciaMazzei.Liz Robbins contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byNothing affects Mexico more than United States immigration policy, and the centrality of the issue in American politics is more prominent than ever.The second pillar — $25 billion for a border wall — is obviously offensive to Mexico, but the country’s lame-duck president, Enrique Peña Nieto, has been much more adamant in his opposition to paying for the wall than to its actual construction. Mr. Peña Nieto either doesn’t believe it will ever see the light of day or lacks the backbone to oppose it. But Mr. Trump’s wall is something Mexico can simultaneously reject and live with, particularly if it will take years to build and if it merely complements segments of fences erected by Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Obama.Since the largest group of foreigners applying for family reunification is by far Mexican (three times as many as Chinese citizens, for example), this would reduce the number of applicants from Mexico who get green cards. Nearly 200,000 Mexicans got green cards in fiscal year 2016; halving that number through a lengthy and tedious procedure that frustrates many Mexicans would not be as bad as shutting down the whole program.So, viewed somewhat cynically from the perspective of strict Mexican national interests, the four-pillar plan has inconveniences for Mexico but also many advantages. That it is racist as well as unworthy of the American immigration ideal and inflames the worst demons in American society is another matter. As Mr. Trump says, countries have to look out for their own interests.To make this plan attractive to Mexico, its leaders need to persuade the American president to increase the number of temporary-worker visas. Again, by far the largest number of these permits are extended to Mexicans. H-2A visas, for seasonal agricultural workers, have no congressional cap; H-2B visas, for seasonal nonagricultural activities, do, but it can be lifted and has been for several years. The Trump administration can increase these numbers significantly without congressional approval.An immense reconstruction effort is underway in Texas and Florida after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma and, with virtual full employment, there is a huge demand for low-skilled, low-wage labor in those regions. It can come only from Mexico.Were Mr. Peña Nieto to make such a suggestion and were Mr. Trump to accept it, both countries’ interests would be well served.In the early years of this century, a comprehensive package like this was called “the whole enchilada.” Half a loaf, or whatever nutritional metaphor one prefers, is not bad.Jorge G. Castañeda, Mexico’s foreign minister from 2000 to 2003, is a professor at New York University, a member of the board of Human Rights Watch, and a contributing opinion writer.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSACRAMENTO — The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez had been summoned to the White House for an urgent meeting, and with so much at stake, he decided that he needed a blessing.He looked out at the Latino families jammed into his evangelical church in Sacramento on a recent Sunday and called on Stephania Herrera, a youth pastor who had come to the United States illegally when she was 10 years old. Ms. Herrera has been allowed to remain in the country under a program known as DACA. But with that program coming to an end, Mr. Rodriguez was to meet with White House aides to discuss how to save people like Ms. Herrera, known as Dreamers, from deportation.“Father,” Ms. Herrera said in Spanish, closing her eyes, gripping the microphone with her left hand and holding her pastor’s hand high with her right, “You have placed him in this place, at this time, in this hour, with a great purpose, and we unite as one believing in your purpose. We ask that you send him covered in favor — send him in power — send him with authority.”The meeting in Washington would not end in success. At President Trump’s urging, Mr. Rodriguez agreed to support a deal that would allow the Dreamers to stay, in exchange for Congress authorizing funding for a border wall, cutting legal immigration and limiting family reunification. But the proposal went nowhere in Congress. And more than a month later, the long-term prospects for roughly 700,000 Dreamers remain in limbo.Mr. Rodriguez represents a singular voice in the immigration debate — the rare Latino in the small clique of evangelicals who serve as informal advisers to President Trump. At the president’s inauguration last year, Mr. Rodriguez was one of only six members of the clergy invited to give a prayer at the ceremony. He has been to the White House or taken part in conference calls so many times since then that he has lost count. But the impasse over the Dreamers has tested whether he has any real influence.He thinks of himself as a modern-day Joseph in Pharaoh’s court, placed there to save his people and advance the common good.“If I’m not there, then what fills that vacuum?” he said in a recent telephone interview. “I know I will be criticized — I get that — but I have to stand up. It’s part of the calling.”Others question why he is advising a president who has characterized Mexicans as rapists and murderers, who ended the DACA program and who wants to curb all immigration, both illegal and legal.Gaby Pacheco, a Hispanic evangelical and one of the original organizers of the Dreamers movement, said she spent years traveling around the country “building bridges” with Republicans and conservative evangelicals, trying to explain the Dreamers’ predicament to them. She said that she and two fellow Dreamers even visited Mr. Trump at Trump Tower in New York City in 2013, shared their stories with him, and were excited when he told them, “You’ve convinced me.” Mr. Trump took them downstairs afterward and bought them Trump-brand ties, an Ivanka Trump watch and copies of his books.She has since soured on Mr. Trump, though, and on Mr. Rodriguez. She said that the pastor had “crossed a boundary” by serving on Mr. Trump’s advisory board and participating in his inauguration.“To some extent, I feel like Sam gives Trump cover and is emboldening Trump, because he stands by him,” said Ms. Pacheco, 33, who lives in Miami and now has a green card. “Just because I’m willing to have conversations and try to change his views on immigrants doesn’t mean I would serve on his advisory board,” she said. “That’s legitimizing him.”Mr. Rodriguez represents a growing segment of the evangelical movement, and one that is often overlooked in all the attention paid to the white evangelicals serving as Mr. Trump’s cheerleaders. One in four evangelicals in the United States is now an immigrant or the child of one. In the younger generation of evangelicals, there are now more Hispanic people than non-Hispanic whites.On litmus-test social issues like abortion and homosexuality, many Hispanic evangelicals hold conservative views, just as most other evangelicals do.Mr. Rodriguez argues that immigrants and their descendants are the future of the evangelical movement, and they could be the future of the Republican Party, too, if only it avoids falling into the trap of alienating immigrants and their supporters.“President Trump got elected on a commitment of protecting America and building a wall,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “I believe in border security, too. I just want him to build a bridge simultaneously. The immigrant community is America’s greatest blessing in the 21st century. And I want everyone from the White House to all the branches of government to affirm it.”A month after the election, Mr. Rodriguez brokered a conference call among 30 Hispanic church leaders and the Trump transition team that produced a public promise from Mr. Trump that the Dreamers would be protected and families would not be torn apart. Mr. Rodriguez was convinced that his entreaties to the president on immigration had gotten through, based on Mr. Trump’s assertion that, “as a father and a grandfather,” he had sympathy for the Dreamers.But in the months that followed, Mr. Rodriguez watched as federal immigration agents stepped up deportations across the country — not just of criminals, but of “law-abiding, God-fearing, hard-working people,” he said. Parents were being separated from their children, he said, which was scaring people from going out. The seats at Sunday services were so empty one weekend, he said, that “we thought the Rapture took place.”In September, Mr. Trump rescinded the DACA program. Mr. Rodriguez swung into high gear, mobilizing Hispanic pastors to visit their legislators at the Capitol. He appeared at a news conference with Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House, to push a bipartisan compromise.His position, he said in an interview, was basically this: “Give the man his wall. Whatever. Give him the wall, and let’s just save these young people.”Mr. Rodriguez, 48, was raised in the Rust Belt city of Bethlehem, Pa., where Poles, Slavs, Ukrainians and Italians were the predominant ethnic communities. His family came from Puerto Rico. Though he was part of the first generation born in the mainland United States, he did not speak English until he went to kindergarten. His father worked on a Mack truck assembly line for 30 years.After college, Mr. Rodriguez stayed at first near his hometown. As he left for work on the first day of a new teaching job, he discovered that his house had been pelted with eggs, his car had been scratched and someone had written on his front steps, “Go home.”“My wife joined me at the door, and she said, ‘What do we do?’ ” Mr. Rodriguez recalled. “I said, ‘Now we’re really not moving.’ ” They remained in that house for five years, until they could afford a bigger one, he said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Rodriguez, who started preaching at 16, has the charisma of a stage magician and the backstage work ethic to match. He is perpetually in motion, flying around the world to preaching engagements. On a recent Sunday, he bounded across the stage of his church, the New Season Christian Worship Center, acting out multiple roles in the biblical story of Joshua.When Mr. Trump invited him to pray at the inauguration, Mr. Rodriguez said, he asked his congregation to raise their hands if anyone objected. If even one hand went up, he said, he would not go. None did.Even so, Hiram Reyes, a Dreamer in the congregation, said she was confused and angry when she saw her pastor at the White House.“Seeing someone representing us, next to someone who wants to destroy us,” said Ms. Reyes, a college-bound high school senior. “At the same time, it is reassuring knowing we do have a voice there. It gives us hope that at some point there will be a resolution.”Leaders of some other large Hispanic evangelical groups have mostly kept their distance from Mr. Trump, and Mr. Rodriguez said he was initially no fan either. During the Republican primary campaign he served first on Jeb Bush’s advisory team, then Marco Rubio’s, then Ted Cruz’s, and only came around to Mr. Trump when he won the nomination.Like many evangelicals, Mr. Rodriguez has been thrilled at some of Mr. Trump’s moves and statements concerning abortion, religious liberty and relocating the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.But he said his last trip to the White House was discouraging. John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, and Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, tried to persuade Mr. Rodriguez and a small group of Hispanic business and civic leaders to support their proposal to link help for Dreamers with support for a border wall and limits on allowing immigration to reunite families. Mr. Rodriguez agreed to support the deal, but said he did not like it much.Many immigration advocates said afterward that the White House had sabotaged the chances for a deal by holding the Dreamers hostage to Mr. Trump’s anti-immigration agenda. But Mr. Rodriguez refused to blame Mr. Trump.He said Republicans and Democrats, the White House and Congress were all at fault. He and his network are now planning a publicity campaign closer to the midterm elections to press members of Congress to act.Meanwhile, the Dreamers in his church are still living in fear.“Families keep on getting destroyed and separated, and there’s still no clarity, no solution,” Ms. Herrera, who works with autistic children, said in a telephone interview last week. “It’s very frustrating.”She blames “politics” in general — both political parties and Mr. Trump alike — for the impasse. “If he wanted to, he could make something happen,” she said. “It seems like they’re just playing a political game with the Dreamers.“I still believe that Pastor Sam is there for a reason, and has the type of influence he has for a reason,” Ms. Herrera added. “No matter what, you can’t lose faith. That’s what holds us together.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump has begun a new push for legislation to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States, White House officials said Monday, arguing that lax laws have drawn a flood of migrants to the country’s borders.The proposals include toughening laws to make it more difficult to apply for or be granted asylum in the United States, stripping protections for children arriving illegally without their parents so they can be turned back at the border or quickly removed, and allowing families to be detained for longer periods while they await decisions from immigration authorities about their fates.While the steps have long been advocated by Mr. Trump’s hard-line aides, including Stephen Miller, his senior policy adviser, focusing on them now opens a new front in the president’s push for immigration restrictions.“A whole big wasted procedure must take place,” Mr. Trump added. “Mexico & Canada have tough immigration laws, whereas ours are an Obama joke.”The message capped a second consecutive day of presidential tweeting on immigration policy that was touched off on Sunday morning when Mr. Trump began venting about “dangerous caravans” of migrants he said were headed to the United States.“DACA is dead because the Democrats didn’t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon,” Mr. Trump said. In fact, the program applies only to immigrants who arrived in the United States before 2007.Later, surrounded by children on the South Lawn of the White House for the annual Easter egg roll festivities, Mr. Trump again put the blame on Democrats, who he said had abandoned the “Dreamers,” as the undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and have benefited from DACA are sometimes called.“The Democrats have really let them down, they’ve really let them down,” Mr. Trump said in response to a question shouted by a reporter, as young children crowded around him at a picnic table where he was signing their artwork. “They had this great opportunity, and Democrats have really let them down — it’s a shame.”“Now people are taking advantage of DACA,” Mr. Trump went on. “It should have never happened.”The president was venting about the failure of bipartisan talks to enshrine DACA’s protections in law. The negotiations became necessary after Mr. Trump moved last fall to end the program, which had been created unilaterally by President Barack Obama.Those deliberations have gone nowhere despite Mr. Trump’s stated willingness to provide a path to citizenship for nearly two million undocumented immigrants who could be considered eligible for the program. Democrats offered last month to provide $25 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump advocates, in exchange for such an extension, but White House officials rejected the deal, demanding additional measures to curb legal and illegal immigration.Democrats said Monday he was deliberately misrepresenting the issue.“Instead of working productively to find a bipartisan solution for Dreamers, the president is attempting to rewrite history with a dangerous, anti-immigrant gaslighting campaign aimed at confusing the American people, slandering the DACA program and disparaging asylum seekers,” said Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, Democrat of New Mexico and the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.But Mr. Trump’s advisers said that in referring to people “taking advantage of DACA,” the president was alluding to Central American migrants who have been duped by human smugglers into making a dangerous trek north in the belief they could enter the United States before lawmakers enact permissive new laws.The notion has taken hold, they said, during a season when migration flows from Central America to the United States typically accelerate.In a conference call on Monday afternoon — convened in part to explain the context of Mr. Trump’s tweets — administration and White House officials said they were pushing for changes to so-called catch-and-release policies that essentially mandate that many people who are detained arriving illegally in the United States be released from custody while awaiting a decision on whether they can stay.They called for changing a law that affords broad protections to children illegally entering the United States alone who are not from Canada and Mexico, so that they could be promptly removed as long as it is determined that they are not victims of human trafficking.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Another senior official outlined modifications Mr. Trump wants to see in asylum policies to limit the number of people claiming to be political refugees who can apply for protection in the United States.Among the changes would be making it more difficult for asylum seekers to demonstrate “credible fear” about returning to their home countries before they are given a chance to stay in the United States and adding more reasons — such as membership in a gang or drunken driving accusations — that asylum seekers could be deemed inadmissible.A senior administration official who detailed the asylum changes said they were meant in part to address a backlog of hundreds of thousands of immigration court cases that can delay hearings for years, allowing undocumented immigrants to be released for long periods and to live legally in the United States while they await decisions on their cases.As part of that effort, the Justice Department told immigration judges on Monday that it would impose new quotas on their work, requiring them to complete 700 cases each year in an effort to speed deportation decisions and eliminate the backlog. That is a slight increase from the average of 678 cases a year the judges completed from 2011 to 2016.Monday’s briefing also suggested that Mr. Trump’s yearlong quest to find a politically palatable solution to the DACA conundrum — which he has often presented as a moral dilemma — is viewed by some of his advisers as a risky gambit that would be justified only with the most restrictive of conditions.One senior White House official said that even a debate in Congress over granting a “generous immigration benefit” such as DACA creates a “major pull factor” for new waves of illegal immigrants.In February, the White House and the Department of Homeland Security lashed out against a bipartisan proposal to codify DACA protections, arguing that it would have eviscerated immigration enforcement for people arriving in the United States before June 2018.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, briefed Mr. Trump on the migration situation last week after returning from a trip to Mexico to meet with President Enrique Peña Nieto and other top Mexican officials, one White House official said, and he was concerned by what he heard.Immigration advocacy groups dismissed Mr. Trump’s latest moves as a play to his core supporters that would ultimately backfire for his party, driving away voters.“When Trump plays to his base with his xenophobia and bigotry, it drives away tolerant suburban voters, threatens America’s perishable crop industry and energizes young people and voters of color,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice.Katie Benner and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:President Trump, who based his campaign on criticizing undocumented immigrants, is now proposing legislation that puts the interests of “illegal” immigrants ahead of those of United States citizens. Mr. Trump offered a path to citizenship to some 1.8 million young undocumented immigrants in exchange for limiting family sponsorship by American citizens and lawful permanent residents. That represents a direct attack on those who do things legally and follow the rules, despite our chaotic immigration system.Family-based petitions allow American citizens to bring legally to the country their foreign-born parents, siblings, spouses and children. It’s the basis of our immigration history and represents the core value of our nation: family values. Sponsoring an immediate relative costs thousands of dollars and takes several years. Also, the family member needs to pass a rigorous process of background checks and interviews.To the Editor:As an attorney who has represented a number of these great young people, I applaud President Trump’s openness to the possibility of citizenship for Dreamers. My Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival clients have been raised and educated in America. They obey American laws, work in American jobs, pay American taxes and hunger for the opportunity to become American citizens.Why should anyone be so determined to deport them? Because they are “illegal”? Typically, they were carried here by their parents when they were small children and are innocent of any intent to break the law. Surely mercy and compassion are not so alien to American hearts that we can watch with indifference as young people are torn from the only land they really know, the United States of America.If this be amnesty, so be it. Since when have we become so heartless that the term has become a dirty word?CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorST. LOUIS — In 1977, when I was 2 years old, my family and I moved from Iran to America so that my father could pursue his doctorate in chemistry at Michigan State University. Two years later, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini seized power and Iran was no longer the country my family knew. We stayed in the United States, becoming permanent residents and eventually citizens by 1999. My parents were raised Muslim but they stopped practicing after leaving Iran, so our household was secular.In many ways, my family was the picture of assimilation. We lived in Edwardsville, Ill., and my father taught chemistry at the local university. My mother opened a tailoring shop. I played tennis, joined a fraternity at the University of Illinois and married my wife in a Catholic church. My sister was in the National Honor Society, and my brother was on the high school football team and played bass in punk bands. Today, he is a corporate chef who hires and supervises hundreds of American workers, and she is a local prosecutor specializing in crimes against children.None of these accomplishments, however, have shielded us from the indiscriminate damage of President Trump’s travel ban, which my mother is challenging as a plaintiff in a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union and partner organizations.In December 2016, my family received the devastating news that my father’s liposarcoma, a rare form of cancer that was first diagnosed in 2014, had returned. His prognosis was terminal. We needed family more than ever during that time. Fortunately, my aunt who lives in Iran had plans to travel here for my sister’s wedding, so she offered to stay for a month or so to support my mother. (They are sisters, and my aunt knows best how to help my mom.) But on Jan. 27, President Trump issued an executive order that revoked visas from Iranians, as well as from citizens of six other Muslim-majority countries.As a former federal counterterrorism prosecutor, I know the importance of protecting America’s national security. For nearly a decade, mostly during the George W. Bush administration, I worked at the Department of Homeland Security to identify and neutralize threats to America. I flew across the country, litigating immigration cases against people accused of terrorism, terrorism fund-raising and espionage. When I appeared in court, I often used my full name, Javad Mohammed Khazaeli. I wanted everyone to know that terrorist extremists did not speak for me nor for a vast majority of Muslims.While the administration relentlessly pursues this senseless ban, my family and I will continue to hold our heads high and fight for the values we know to be true of the United States — freedom of religion, protection against discrimination, and the belief that people should be judged by their characters and deeds, rather than by the countries they come from.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSDES MOINES, Iowa —  Iowa is set to become the latest Republican-led state to target so-called sanctuary cities by withholding money from local governments that don't comply with federal immigration laws, even though the plan could lead to court challenges.A bill outlining an expansive immigration enforcement plan is expected to receive final legislative approval this week. It comes as President Donald Trump ramps up calls for more stringent immigration enforcement.Critics say it would essentially allow racial profiling, but Republican lawmakers frame the measure as a public safety policy. Republican Rep. Steven Holt of Denison, a western Iowa community with a growing Latino population, said the bill focuses on immigrants living in the U.S. without legal permission who are suspected of crimes."This legislation is about the rule of law, and the safety of all people, citizens and immigrants alike," Holt said shortly before the Iowa House approved the bill Tuesday on a 55-45 vote, with one Democrat voting for it and five Republicans against it.The legislation was being debated in the Republican-controlled Senate late Wednesday. Republican Gov. Kim Reynolds has indicated she would sign the measure, highlighting it in a fundraising email for her gubernatorial campaign.Immigration activist Berenice Nava said she believes immigrants will be racially profiled even if the bill specifically prohibits it. She noted the bill would allow authorities to question people about their immigration status if they're "under lawful detention or under arrest.""I feel very threatened," the 26-year-old Des Moines resident said before she and other activists gathered in the House gallery Tuesday waving American and Iowa flags. "I'm not light skin. I don't have blonde hair. My family, my friends, they're brown skin. So I fear for everyone."The primary focus of the legislation is on "sanctuary cities," a catch-all label for jurisdictions that limit local involvement in federal immigration enforcement. Trump's administration has threatened to deny federal grant money to sanctuary cities, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions' office recently sued California over the state's law barring police in many cases from turning suspects over to federal agents for deportation.Iowa has no sanctuary cities, though some communities and schools have varying guidelines on how to handle immigration related issues. School districts in Des Moines and Iowa City, for example, have adopted policies directing immigration enforcement requests to be funneled to their superintendents' offices.Under the Iowa legislation, a local entity — such as a city and county government — would lose state funding if they adopted policies that prohibit or discourage the enforcement of immigration laws.Law enforcement agencies would have to comply with requests from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to hold a jailed person 48 hours after they would otherwise be detained. Immigration attorneys say that provision could open the state to litigation if an individual is held beyond the time he or she would otherwise be released.The bill would also block municipalities from preventing Iowa jails from being used as part of federal agents' work.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Law enforcement officials have testified against the bill, saying they already follow immigration laws. The measure could also hurt public safety by discouraging trust between immigrants and authorities during investigations, said Sen. Matt McCoy, a Des Moines Democrat."You're making communities less safe," he said Wednesday during floor debate.Supporters of the legislation disagree, pointing to language in the bill that's supposed to protect immigrants who report crimes.More than a dozen groups, including the Iowa attorney general's office and the Iowa Coalition Against Domestic Violence, are registered against the bill. Two organizations are registered in support.There were an estimated 40,000 immigrants living illegally in Iowa in 2014, the most recent data available, according to the nonpartisan Pew Research Center.The Iowa legislation has raised questions about its impact to schools. A nonpartisan analysis by the Legislative Services Agency concluded that it was unclear whether schools fell under the legislation's definition of a public entity. That could open the door for school immigration policies to be challenged.Sen. Julian Garrett, a Republican from Indianola who wrote the bill, dismissed that assessment on Wednesday. He later added the bill would survive any lawsuits."It's legal. It's supported by the public," he said.More than 30 states considered bills last year similar to Iowa's proposal, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, while 15 states and the District of Columbia sought legislation to support sanctuary cities.Only a handful of states have actually enacted such bans in recent years, with a range of enforcement provisions. The most high-profile was a Texas law passed last year that threatened jail time for officials who don't follow federal immigration directives. A federal appeals court upheld the law last month amid a lawsuit.David Hernandez is an 18-year-old from Denison in western Iowa, where Holt resides. Hernandez said Iowa has always been a melting pot with communities like Denison and Storm Lake in northwestern Iowa. Hernandez said Wednesday he feels fearful for families seeking refuge from violence in Latin America."This is going to target immigrants," he said.Go to Home Page »Supported byUntil his dying day, my dad’s Uncle Bern was a communist sympathizer. I remember him as an affable old man with a gracious wife who made a modest living selling antique lace. He probably wouldn’t have hurt a fly. Yet he found much to admire in the most murderous ideology of the 20th century, responsible for tens of millions of deaths from the killing fields of Cambodia to the gulags of Murmansk.Most of these people, like my great-uncle, were deeply misguided idealists who otherwise led quiet and decent lives. A tiny handful of others — including atomic spies Julius Rosenberg, David Greenglass, Harry Gold and Morton Sobell — betrayed America’s most important military secrets to Stalinist Russia and did incalculable damage to the country and the world.Here’s a thought experiment: Would the United States have been better off if it had banned Jewish immigration sometime in the late 19th century, so that the immigrant parents of Rosenberg and Sobell had never set foot here? The question is worth asking, because so many of the same arguments made against African, Latin-American and Muslim immigrants today might have easily been applied to Jews just over a century ago.Consider some of the parallels.Racial desirability? Just as Donald Trump wants more Norwegian immigrants and none from “s-hole countries,” the early 20th-century eugenicist, conservationist and immigration restrictionist Madison Grant was obsessed with protecting the “Nordic” races against those he termed “social discards” — including “the Slovak, the Italian, the Syrian and the Jew.”Assimilation? This week, Attorney General Jeff Sessions asked, in an interview with Fox News, “What good does it do to bring in somebody who’s illiterate in their own country, has no skills and is going to struggle in our country and not be successful?” That seems to be the general way of thinking in this administration.Now compare that to a 1907 article in McClure’s magazine, titled “The Great Jewish Invasion,” which observed of Russian Jews, “no people have had a more inadequate preparation, educational and economic, for American citizenship.” Henry Adams, the great American patrician, wrote of “furtive Yacoob or Ysaac still reeking of the ghetto, snarling a weird Yiddish.” In 1914, Edward Alsworth Ross, the famous progressive sociologist from the University of Wisconsin, called Jews “moral cripples” whose “tribal spirit intensified by social isolation prompts them to rush to the rescue of the caught rascal of their own race.”Today, American Jews are widely considered the model minority, so thoroughly assimilated that organizational Jewish energies are now largely devoted to protecting our religious and cultural distinctiveness. Someone might ask Jeff Sessions and other eternal bigots what makes an El Salvadoran, Iranian or Haitian any different.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSATLANTA —  Federal immigration authorities have made it difficult for immigrants held at two detention centers in Georgia and one in Louisiana to access and communicate with lawyers, according to a lawsuit filed Wednesday.The Southern Poverty Law Center filed the lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and various individual officials.The three facilities at issue are the Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia, the Irwin County Detention Center in Ocilla, Georgia, and the LaSalle Detention Facility in Jena, Louisiana.Many people held in detention facilities have claims that may allow them to stay in the United States or, at least, to remain free while their deportation proceedings are pending, the lawsuit says. Legal representation can ensure that they're not held unnecessarily for years and frequently determines whether their cases are ultimately successful, the lawsuit says.These detention facilities are all in remote areas, several hours by car from big cities where lawyers, interpreters and other resources are located, the lawsuit says. Remote communication by phone or video link is difficult, and lawyers who do make the trip often face long waits and then have to meet with their clients in inadequate conditions, it says."DHS intentionally selects private companies who operate immigration prisons as cash cows in remote, rural areas of the Southeast that are beyond the reach of most lawyers," Southern Poverty Law Center legal director Lisa Graybill said in an emailed statement."ICE respects the rights of all aliens in removal proceedings to hire and consult with a lawyer of their choice and has policies in place to ensure that aliens may do so to the extent required by federal law," ICE spokeswoman Tamara Spicer said in an email.Immigration authorities also fail to ensure that the private contractors running the detention centers don't provide further barriers to attorney-client visits, including interrupting or listening in on meetings, refusing to allow meetings during facility counts and shift change, not allowing meetings even when visitation rooms are open and arbitrarily changing visitation rules, the lawsuit says.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.These private prison companies that run the detention centers have a financial motivation to operate with as small a staff as possible, and many of the access and communication problems that lawyers report are caused by insufficient staffing, the lawsuit says.Immigration law is extremely complex, and limited access to clients through in-person visits, phone calls and video link makes it difficult for lawyers to gather enough information to adequately prepare for crucial hearings, the lawsuit says.The Southern Poverty Law Center last year launched the Southeast Immigrant Freedom Initiative, saying it wanted to provide high-quality free legal representation and to protect due process rights for people held in immigration detention centers across the Southeast. The program began working at Stewart in April 2017, at Irwin in August and at LaSalle in September.There are not enough attorney visitation rooms and the ones that exist are inadequate, the lawsuit says, with physical barriers that make it tough for attorneys and clients to establish a relationship and exchange documents. Lawyers can't bring phones or computers and the rooms don't have landlines, so they are unable to use remote translation services. There is also evidence that guards and others are able to hear what should be confidential conversations, the lawsuit says.The Southern Poverty Law Center says many of the obstacles described in the lawsuit — including arbitrary changing of visitation rules and harassment by detention center staff — are targeted specifically at that organization because of its mission and not at other immigration attorneys with clients at the three detention centers.The lawsuit alleges violations of the detainees' due process rights and of its own free speech rights which protect its activities as a legal organization. It asks a judge to declare that policies and practices at the three detention centers violate the Constitution and to order that immigration authorities take specific steps to remedy the issues.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Senate summarily blocked three measures on Thursday — including one backed by President Trump — to resolve the fate of the so-called Dreamers, leaving hundreds of thousands of them facing an uncertain future.As senators struck down measure after measure, a week that began with the promise of a rare open, free-ranging debate on the issue crashed headlong into the same divisions that have prevented Congress from fixing the nation’s immigration system for decades. The lack of consensus left in question whether any solution on the Dreamers can be reached.In a rebuke to the president, senators voted overwhelmingly, 39 to 60, against the White House-backed bill, which would have committed $25 billion for a wall along the border with Mexico, placed strict limits on legal immigration, ended the diversity visa lottery and offered 1.8 million Dreamers an eventual path to citizenship.Senators were 21 votes short of the 60 required to open debate, and the rejection of the president’s plan was bipartisan: Democrats refused its get-tough approach to legal immigration, while many conservative Republicans derided it as amnesty.Before the vote on Mr. Trump’s plan, senators rejected two bipartisan measures, including one written by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, and another drafted by a broad bipartisan group of centrists calling themselves the Common Sense Coalition.The votes were a stark reminder that Congress remains paralyzed by the immigration issue. Former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush both tried to overhaul the system, but were stymied by lawmakers frozen into inaction, in part because of powerful interests on both sides.What will happen now is unclear. An estimated 690,000 young undocumented immigrants have been protected from deportation by an Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. Another 1.1 million would be eligible.But Mr. Trump has rescinded the program, which offers temporary, renewable work permits. It expires March 5.The White House had worked vigorously to oppose the centrist bill, which the Department of Homeland Security labeled “a mass amnesty for over 10 million illegal aliens.” Senators of both parties said afterward that the Trump administration was instrumental in its defeat.“I don’t think the president helped very much, but the bottom line is the demagogues won again on the left and the right,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a key sponsor of the Senate measure.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Thursday’s votes came after Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, had set aside this week for senators to try to write a bill from scratch. Some senators said it was possible that lawmakers would attach an immigration bill to a catchall spending measure that must pass by March 23, when funding for the federal government expires.Senator John Cornyn, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said he did not envision Mr. McConnell allowing more time for lawmakers to debate the issue.“I don’t see it,” Mr. Cornyn said. “If we couldn’t get it together this week, I mean, we’ve got other things we have to do, which are pressing.”In the run-up to the debate, the bipartisan Common Sense Coalition measure, sponsored by seven Democrats, eight Republicans and one independent, was thought to have the best chance to clear the 60-vote threshold needed to pass the Senate.It would have appropriated $25 billion for border security, including construction of the president’s proposed wall, over a 10-year period — but not immediately, as Mr. Trump demands.It also included an eventual path to citizenship, over 10 to 12 years, for 1.8 million of the young undocumented immigrants, but would have precluded them from sponsoring their parents to become citizens. And it did not make changes to the diversity visa lottery system, which Mr. Trump wants to end.The White House attacked the plan as a grievous threat to national security and asserted that its sponsors were either complicit in wanting to undermine the United States’ immigration laws or misinformed about the drastic effects that the proposal would have.In a conference call with reporters before voting began, a senior White House official lashed out at Mr. Graham. Speaking only on the condition of anonymity despite repeated requests to be on the record, the official accused Mr. Graham of attacking homeland security officials and standing in the way of needed immigration changes.Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.“Senator Graham has been an obstacle for those reforms,” the official said.The official accused Mr. Graham of misleading other senators, including Democrats, about the damage the proposal would do, and said that Democrats should not let “Lindsey Graham dictate what Democrat senators ought to do.”On Capitol Hill, Mr. Graham took aim at Stephen Miller, a top White House aide and an immigration hard-liner. “As long as the president allows Steve Miller and others to run the show down there, we’re never going to get anywhere,” he said.After the legislative failures in the Senate, top White House officials said they plan to turn their attention to the House, where Republicans are working on a similar hard-line immigration plan that Mr. Trump has also embraced.Republicans may have more success approving the bill in the House, where they control the chamber and need only a simple majority to pass legislation. Mr. Trump praised the House legislation on Thursday, saying that it “enshrines” his immigration principles.Later Thursday night, the White House released a statement in support of advancing that legislation and denouncing the “Schumer Democrats,” referencing Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. The statement said that the Democrats “are not serious about DACA, they are not serious about immigration reform, and they are not serious about homeland security.”In the meantime, advocates estimate that more than 100 of the young immigrants lose their protected status each day. On March 5, they say, the number could rise to as many as 1,400 a day.“The president is not negotiating in good faith,” said Juan Escalante, 28, who was born in Venezuela and now works for America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group. “If you ask me, as an impacted party who essentially has everything to lose — my driver’s license and my work permit and my livelihood in this country — that is not any way to negotiate a deal.”White House officials are betting that House passage of a bill to protect the Dreamers will put enormous pressure on Democrats in the Senate. But immigrant rights activists and Democrats — and some Republicans in the Senate — have repeatedly vowed to oppose the House legislation, which they call outrageous and hurtful.That could leave the issue mired in stalemate as neither chamber can embrace legislation that the other chamber is willing to pass.“No one comes out a winner in this,” a dejected-sounding Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia and a chairman of the Common Sense Coalition, said after the Senate vote. “We tried everything.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — In 2006 and again in 2013, Republican moderates joined Democrats in the Senate to pass sweeping overhauls of the nation’s immigration laws with a pathway to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants, only to see the compromises torpedoed by a wave of angry activism in the conservative news media and grass roots.This time, as senators again search for a way forward on immigration, a revolt from the right has so far failed to materialize, in large part because of the intransigence of a different player: a man in the White House who has mostly satisfied immigration hard-liners.That may have been the point, as it sits just fine with many on the right who never wanted a deal in the first place.“Trump outsmarted them,” said Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host and author who was one of the many voices on the right who helped bury the 2013 immigration legislation that died when the House refused to take it up. “They won’t cut a deal is my prediction.”This approach has benefits for Mr. Trump and his party. The president keeps a key campaign promise by not agreeing to anything his base would consider too lenient.Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a Republican who has been a frequent target of the right for trying to broker bipartisan agreements on immigration, said the current debate was noticeably lacking in the bitterness that had so easily whipped up against Republicans in the past.Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.“That’s just on the margins now,” he said. “Trump introduced a 1.8 million-person pathway to citizenship. And it’s hard to get to his right on this stuff.”And if the efforts in the Senate to pass a deal go nowhere, that saves vulnerable incumbent Republicans in the House from having to take a difficult vote and risk a primary challenge from the right. Before the end of March, 25 states have filing deadlines for House and Senate races, leaving ample time for conservative challengers to emerge.“There are no profiles in courage during filing season,” said Richard F. Hohlt, a veteran Republican consultant. “If you’re up there — in the House especially — you’re saying, ‘Why do I want to get in the middle of this debate if I don’t have to?’”“It’s all about the self-interest of the members,” he added.Senator James Lankford, a conservative Republican from Oklahoma who has been trying to bring together the divergent factions in his party and resolve the status of the young immigrants, known as Dreamers, said he found the repeated failure to address such a glaring problem incredibly frustrating.“It’s not that it hasn’t been something obvious to everyone,” he said. “It’s that Congress has been unwilling to address it.”“For 20 years, there have been groups that have pushed us apart, saying don’t talk,” he added.There are several factors that make proponents of a compromise hopeful that this time is different, though they acknowledge the odds are against that. First is the pressure of a deadline. Mr. Trump has said that he will let legal protections for the Dreamers expire on March 5, and the Senate has a self-imposed end-of-the-week deadline to write legislation.With the exception of a small group of hard-liners on the right, conservatives agree that Congress should do something to save the Dreamers from living with the constant fear of deportation.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“These conservatives who say they’re so worried about terrorism, this should be a no-brainer,” said Travis Korson, a Republican consultant who is working to push more Republicans to agree on a Dreamer solution.Evangelical groups are now pressing lawmakers to reach a solution, giving the issue the imprimatur of one of the most important constituencies in the conservative coalition.In a letter to Mr. Trump and members of Congress last week, dozens of church leaders called for action. “The Bible speaks clearly and repeatedly to God’s love and concern for the vulnerable,” they wrote, “and also challenges us to think beyond our nationality, ethnicity or religion when loving our neighbor.”Alex Conant, a Republican strategist who was an adviser to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida when Mr. Rubio was pilloried by the right for helping write a comprehensive immigration overhaul in 2013, noted that with Republicans in control of the White House and both houses of Congress, there may not be a better opportunity for years.Mr. Trump, he said, “could become the first president since Reagan to fix immigration.”“He has the chance to sign something historic,” Mr. Conant added. “And if I were advising him that’s what I’d tell him to do. But I’m not advising him. Stephen Miller is.” (Mr. Miller is the senior policy adviser who, perhaps more than anyone else at the White House, has been a check on the president’s impulses to consider a deal that is less restrictive.)In many ways, the Republican Party is still stuck in the same debate it has been having for a generation over law and order versus “amnesty,” a generic term many on the right have used to describe plans that would provide legal status or citizenship to anyone here illegally.But with the election of a president who ran on the most restrictive immigration platform in modern times, the reality for the Republican Party under Mr. Trump is more difficult than it was under Reagan, who still elicits disapproval from conservatives who believe he gave too much away in the immigration overhaul of 1986.“We have gone through this before with President Reagan, and we have been suffering the consequences since,” said Jenny Beth Martin, a co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots.“Prove to us that you are worthy of our trust,” she added, “and then come back and talk to us about how we deal with people who are entering this country illegally.”See More »Go to Home Page »SAN DIEGO —  The Trump administration has introduced production quotas for immigration judges in an effort to reduce enormous court backlogs, raising concern among judges and attorneys that decisions may be unfairly rushed.The Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review said judges must complete 700 cases a year to earn a satisfactory grade. The standards, which take effect Oct. 1, include six other measures indicating how much time judges should spend on different types of cases and court motions.The move, while significant, didn't come as a surprise. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who oversees immigration courts, has sought major changes to the long-clogged courts as a sharp increase in deportation arrests under President Donald Trump has pushed the backlog above 650,000 cases. In December, Sessions wrote judges that performance measures would aid in "the efficient and timely completion of cases and motions" while maintaining fairness.James McHenry, director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, used similar language in an email Friday that details the new measures for the department's approximately 350 immigration judges."Using metrics to evaluate performance is neither novel nor unique to (the Executive Office for Immigration Review)," McHenry wrote. "The purpose of implementing these metrics is to encourage efficient and effective case management while preserving immigration judge discretion and due process."The Associated Press obtained a copy of McHenry's memo and performance plan, whose contents were first reported by The Wall Street Journal.The measures are highly specific. A judge who completes more than 560 cases a year but fewer than 700 "needs improvement." Deciding fewer than 560 cases a year is deemed unsatisfactory.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Justice Department said Monday that judges complete an average of 678 cases a year.Under one benchmark, judges must rule the same day on every plea by asylum seekers to pass an initial threshold of establishing "credible" or "reasonable" fear to earn a satisfactory mark, unless the Homeland Security Department is responsible for them failing to show. Anything less than 80 percent is considered unsatisfactory.The National Immigration Judges Association, whose recent collective bargaining agreement allows for performance metrics, strongly opposes the numerical targets and will explore options under federal labor law, said Dana Leigh Marks, a union spokeswoman."We believe the imposition of numerical performance metrics is completely, utterly contrary to judicial independence," said Marks, who is also an immigration judge in San Francisco. "We believe assessing quality is fine, not quantity."Judges can argue that the nature of their cases justifies a lower completion rate, but Marks said keeping logs will add to their work burden and potentially create more backlog. She also said people may be more inclined to appeal decisions by arguing that the quotas denied them a fair hearing.Laura Lynch, senior policy counsel for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said immigration attorneys were deeply concerned that cases will be "rushed through.""Subjecting judges to numerical goals undermines one of the core principles of our judicial system, which is really a fair day in court," she said.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Democrats and Republicans each want to wield the stalemate between President Donald Trump and Congress over immigration as a weapon in November's congressional elections.Fanned by tweets from President Donald Trump about a crisis on the Mexican border that others reject as manufactured, each party is using immigration to fire up voters in House races across the country. Democrats think it can help them reach minorities, young people and suburban moderates repelled by Trump's strident anti-immigrant stances, while Republicans are using promises to crack down on immigration to energize their conservative political base.Democrats are using the issue to emphasize inclusivity and are targeting border regions, suburbs and areas with immigrant populations. Republicans plan to make immigration a law-and-order issue that appeals to conservatives throughout the U.S.The debate is likely to roil races in California, Texas, Florida, Arizona, perhaps New Mexico and Virginia's Washington, D.C., suburbs. One diverse Southern California House district centered on the sprawl of Orange County has already become a testing ground for each party's strategy.The retirement of 13-term Republican Rep. Ed Royce makes the seat a prime target for Democrats seeking a 23-seat pickup in November, enough to grab House control.Seventeen GOP, Democratic and independent candidates are vying in a multiparty June 5 primary, a group that includes a Republican who has worked to scuttle pro-immigrant sanctuary city laws. It also features a Democrat who fled Vietnam as a child and whose campaign website praises "the open arms of a country" that offered "my shot at the American Dream."Trump has tweeted this week about "ridiculous" laws making it hard to send arrivals from Mexico "back where they came from." On Wednesday, he signed a proclamation directing National Guard troops to secure the U.S.-Mexico border.Democrats think Trump's harsh stance will send liberal, minority and moderate voters their way. Although the economy and health care register higher as voter concerns, Democrats see advantages from touting Congress' attempt to shield young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.That effort collapsed in February after Trump rejected $25 billion to build his treasured border wall with Mexico in exchange for offering possible citizenship for Dreamers who were brought illegally to the U.S. as children and who have been temporarily protected by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program."Immigration is one of those cultural touchstone issues" that shows Democrats are ready to "stand up to Trump," said Mike Lux, a liberal Democratic consultant.Democrats say GOP incumbents vulnerable to attacks over immigration include Reps. Carlos Curbelo of South Florida, David Valadao of California's Central Valley and Will Hurd of West Texas. Their districts are around 70 percent Hispanic.While the U.S. population is around 18 percent Hispanic, 62 congressional districts had at least double that mark in 2016, the most recent breakdown available, according to the nonpartisan Pew Research Center. Underscoring how Hispanics tend to vote Democratic, just 13 of those districts are represented by Republicans, three of whom are retiring: Florida's Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, New Mexico's Steve Pearce and Texas' Blake Farenthold.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The GOP position on the issue isn't monolithic.Over two dozen Republican moderates are co-sponsoring a bipartisan bill by Hurd and others to protect "Dreamers" and strengthen border security. Over 40 are backing an attempt by Rep. Jeff Denham, R-Calif., to prod House leaders to permit votes on several immigration measures. Both efforts seem like longshots but let backers underscore their willingness to compromise.Other Republicans envision sharply conservative campaigns raising the specter of sanctuary cities, where local authorities limit cooperation with federal immigration officials, and casting such policies as enabling immigrants in the U.S. illegally to commit crimes and grab jobs. That could help with conservatives nationwide, including places like Arizona and northern and central Florida, they say.Many voters view Democrats "as the party of protecting illegals over citizens," said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Congressional Leadership Fund, a political committee aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. "This issue works across the country."Bliss' group ran TV ads attacking Democrat Conor Lamb on immigration in the waning weeks of last month's special election in an open, overwhelmingly white House district in western Pennsylvania that heavily backed Trump in 2016.The spots said Lamb favors "amnesty to millions of immigrants" and as an Obama administration official encouraged sanctuary cities, "which put illegal immigrants who commit crimes back on the street."Lamb won narrowly. But such arguments could help Republicans energize conservatives concerned about "the proliferation of non-English speaking people in this culture, a sense that we're losing what America used to be," said GOP strategist Whit Ayers.In California, Shawn Nelson is among several GOP contenders running in the Orange County contest. A member of the county board of supervisors, Nelson helped push that body to join a federal lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of California's sanctuary law."Even if you're not seeing illegals crossing the border into your state, they're potentially stealing your jobs, they're potentially making you less safe," John Thomas, Nelson's chief strategist, said of the issue's appeal.One of Nelson's Democratic opponents is Mai Khanh Tran, a pediatrician who was evacuated to the U.S. from Vietnam in 1975.Tran policy adviser Jack Hipkins says her message that America is "supposed to be open and inclusive and diverse" could attract Republicans displeased with the party's harsh tone. The district is roughly evenly divided among whites, Hispanics and Asians.The top two finishers in the primary will meet in the Nov. 6 election.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Both Democrats and Republicans think the stalemate between President Donald Trump and Congress over immigration can help them in November's congressional elections. Each could be right.In House races across the country, both parties are using the fight over immigration — fanned by tweets from President Donald Trump about a crisis on the Mexican border that others say doesn't exist — to fire up base voters in midterm elections. Democrats think it can help them reach minorities, young people and suburban moderates repelled by Trump's strident anti-immigrant stances, while Republicans have noted his success in using promises to crack down on immigration to energize disaffected conservatives.As a result, Democrats are using the issue to emphasize inclusivity and are targeting border regions, suburbs and areas with immigrant populations. Republicans, whose districts tend to be less diverse, plan to make immigration a law-and-order issue that appeals to conservatives all around the U.S.The debate is likely to roil races in California, Texas, Florida, Arizona, perhaps New Mexico and Virginia's Washington, D.C., suburbs. One diverse Southern California House district centered on the sprawl of Orange County has already become a testing ground for each party's immigration strategy.The retirement of 13-term Republican Rep. Ed Royce makes the seat a prime target for Democrats trying to pick up 23 seats in November's elections, enough to grab House control. Seventeen GOP, Democratic and independent candidates are vying in a multiparty June 5 primary, a group that includes a Republican who has worked to scuttle pro-immigrant sanctuary city laws and a Democrat who fled Vietnam as a child.Mai Khanh Tran's campaign website praises "the open arms of a country" that offered "my shot at the American Dream."Trump this week amplified his rhetoric with tweets about "ridiculous" laws making it hard to send arrivals from Mexico "back where they came from." On Wednesday, he signed a proclamation directing National Guard troops to secure the U.S.-Mexico border.It's the sort of language Democrats hope will send voters their way. Although the economy and health care register higher as voter concerns, Democrats see advantages from touting Congress' attempt to shield young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation. That effort collapsed in February after Trump rejected $25 billion to build his treasured border wall with Mexico in exchange for offering possible citizenship for Dreamers who were brought illegally to the U.S. as children and who have been temporarily protected by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.Democrats say the gridlock lets them convey a message of tolerance that can woo voters, contributors and volunteers — including liberals, minorities and moderates alienated by Trump's words."Immigration is one of those cultural touchstone issues" that shows Democrats are ready to "stand up to Trump," said Mike Lux, a liberal Democratic consultant.Democrats say GOP incumbents vulnerable to attacks over immigration include Reps. Carlos Curbelo of South Florida, David Valadao of California's Central Valley and Will Hurd of West Texas. Their districts are around 70 percent Hispanic.While the U.S. population is around 18 percent Hispanic, 62 congressional districts had at least double that mark in 2016, the most recent breakdown available, according to the nonpartisan Pew Research Center. Underscoring how Hispanics tend to vote Democratic, just 13 of those districts are represented by Republicans, three of whom are retiring: Florida's Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, New Mexico's Steve Pearce and Texas' Blake Farenthold.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Republicans envision campaigns raising the specter of sanctuary cities, where local authorities limit cooperation with federal immigration officials, and casting such policies as enabling immigrants in the U.S. illegally to commit crimes and grab jobs. That could help in places like Arizona and northern and central Florida, they say.Many voters view Democrats "as the party of protecting illegals over citizens," said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Congressional Leadership Fund, a political committee aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. "This issue works across the country."Bliss' group ran TV ads attacking Democrat Conor Lamb on immigration in the waning weeks of last month's special election in an open, overwhelmingly white House district in western Pennsylvania that heavily backed Trump in 2016.The spots said Lamb favors "amnesty to millions of immigrants" and as an Obama administration official encouraged sanctuary cities, "which put illegal immigrants who commit crimes back on the street." Lamb won narrowly, which Bliss attributed to a weak GOP candidate.Republicans acknowledge that Democrats' pro-immigration stance could attract moderate suburban voters. But the GOP could also use it to energize conservatives concerned about "the proliferation of non-English speaking people in this culture, a sense that we're losing what America used to be," said GOP strategist Whit Ayers.In California, conservative Shawn Nelson is among several GOP contenders running in the Orange County contest. As a member of the county board of supervisors, Nelson helped push that body to join a federal lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of California's sanctuary law."Even if you're not seeing illegals crossing the border into your state, they're potentially stealing your jobs, they're potentially making you less safe," John Thomas, Nelson's chief strategist, said of the issue's appeal.One of Nelson's Democratic opponents is Tran, a pediatrician who was evacuated to the U.S. from Vietnam in 1975.Tran policy adviser Jack Hipkins says her message that America is "supposed to be open and inclusive and diverse" could attract Republicans displeased with the party's harsh tone on the issue. The district is roughly evenly divided among whites, Hispanics and Asians.The top two finishers in the crowded primary will meet in the Nov. 6 election.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):4:20 p.m.Trump administration officials are working on a new package of legislation aimed at closing what they describe as immigration "loopholes."Among the measures they want Congress to address: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children traveling alone from countries that don't border the U.S.They also want Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to caretakers while their cases are making their way through immigration court.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House wish list on immigration that was released in October.It's unclear, however, whether there is any appetite in Congress for such changes, especially now that the president has said he is no longer interested in protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.___2:05 p.m.Political groups backed by the conservative Koch brothers are criticizing President Donald Trump for declaring that an effort to protect young immigrants from deportation is dead.Freedom Partners is backed by the wealthy Charles and David Koch. Its executive vice president is James Davis, and he says it would be "irresponsible and represent a grave injustice" not to compromise with Democrats on permanently protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for border security.Trump has rejected such a deal.Officials with Americans for Prosperity and The LIBRE Initiative released similar statements. LIBRE Initiative President Daniel Garza says Dreamers "have contributed to our economy and our communities."The Kochs didn't support Trump's 2016 presidential bid. They've previously criticized his immigration stance but have backed many of his other policies.__12:55 p.m.President Donald Trump is attacking his own Justice Department and the FBI on Twitter, accusing them of withholding information and "slow walking" the production of documents to Republicans in Congress.Trump is also appearing to question the integrity of the Justice Department in his Tweet by putting quotation marks around the word "Justice" in referring to the department. He says the conduct of the agencies overseen by his appointees is an "embarrassment to our country."The criticism comes about a week after Trump-appointed FBI Director Christopher Wray assigned 54 FBI staff to work from 8 a.m. to midnight collecting and reviewing documents requested by various congressional investigations.The president could expedite the release of the documents on his own by declassifying the information in full.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.__11:20 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the state of the nation's economy at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.Trump spoke briefly to hundreds of guests on the South Lawn, pointing to a "special year" for the country and progress on the economy.The president and first lady Melania Trump, joined by 12-year-old son Barron, then walked over to the station where kids are rolling dyed, hard-boiled eggs across the lawn.Trump addressed reporters briefly, reiterating that Democrats have "really let" down young immigrants seeking a deal on protections from deportation.Trump has been trying to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Although he says he has been open to a law extending it, he and Congress have been unable to come to terms.__7:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is calling for new border wall and immigration legislation, tweeting that moving to the "nuclear option" in the Senate is only way to muscle such a measure through Congress. But that would require changing Senate rules, something for which Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has shown no enthusiasm.In early morning tweets Monday, Trump says "Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People." He added, "Act now, Congress, our country is being stolen."Trump also tweeted that the U.S. must build a border wall, but argued that "Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime!" He also said that a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants is "dead because the Democrats didn't care or act."The $1.3 trillion funding package Congress passed last month included $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.__12:48 a.m.President Donald Trump has declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted Sunday one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.Go to Home Page »Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your InboxEvery country regulates immigration in its own imperfect way. Some countries have populations that are 80 percent foreign-born but offer no pathway to permanency. Other countries put up huge barriers to citizenship except for people whose parents were born there.President Trump has called for a shift from what currently makes the American immigration system distinct: its focus on family ties, a framework that accounts for two-thirds of all residency visas, more than any other country. Instead, he and many Republicans would like most visas to be distributed based on employability, with a preference for those who are highly skilled, like doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs.The accompanying chart displays selected countries and the circumstances under which each one welcomes foreigners. It’s based on data from 2011, the latest year available for certain countries like China, and shows temporary migrants (like students and guest workers) and permanent migrants, broken down by the basis for their visa: family ties, employment, humanitarian purposes (as with refugees) or under a free-movement policy (as with the European Union).Simply put, the purpose of an immigration policy is to decide what types of people to allow inside the border. What would it look like if the United States adopted rules more like those of Canada, Japan or Qatar?  Compare the policies below.In 2011, Canada and Australia relied heavily on immigrants who were admitted based on employability, many of whom were allowed to stay permanently. Both countries used a merit-based point system to determine who qualified, assigning a number of points to criteria such as education, language skills and employment history.“If you think of the undocumented as 11 to 12 million temporary low-skilled laborers, then you have a system that looks a little bit more like Canada” in terms of temporary workers, he said. (In fact, Canada and Australia have a much greater proportion of temporary workers than the United States.)But a merit-based system doesn’t necessarily result in economic payoff, because skills don’t always lead to a job. For example, Canada has struggled to keep its merit-based workers employed since 1967, when the policy was first established.Another reason President Trump might not want to rely too heavily on Canada or Australia as models: Both countries allow in far more immigrants as a percentage of their population. If the United States were to follow their lead, it would involve admitting millions more people.Historically, most immigrants in Europe have been other Europeans. The European Union allows people to relocate between countries with a level of freedom that is unmatched elsewhere in the world, greatly widening employment pools.Mercosur, a trade bloc in South America, functions like the E.U., though it allows people to live outside their home countries for only two years at a time, after which they must apply for permission to stay permanently.It might help to imagine that these partnerships are like Nafta — the policy between the United States, Mexico and Canada that lowers barriers for trade, which President Trump has threatened to eliminate — but instead of goods, the agreements apply to people.In a system like that, Americans looking for work would be able to expand their searches into Canada and Mexico, but they would also compete against Canadian and Mexican candidates for jobs in the United States.South Korea and Japan are so stringent with immigration that they make the United States look lenient. This is partly because of a desire to preserve their cultures, a goal echoed by some conservative groups in the United States.The Gulf states allow a huge immigrant influx to meet the demand for cheap, low-skilled labor, but almost all of the immigrants are temporary, and they have few rights or protections.The only way that governments can sustain these heavy immigrant populations is by withholding the generous resources that are granted to ordinary citizens, such as free health care, free college tuition and marriage allowances.Most Americans would not be comfortable with this approach, said Morris Levy, a political scientist at the University of Southern California who studies public opinion on immigration.  “People dislike the idea of a permanent second-class citizen,” he said. “It goes back to a core set of values that people think of as really elemental to being American.”Based on the current debate, any solution that Congress agrees on will probably fall somewhere between international models. It could follow some trends that are occurring worldwide.For example, in many countries, including Canada and Australia, there has been a shift away from exclusively merit-based systems to ones that also consider whether someone has a job offer — something currently done in the United States.For purposes of immigration, the United States could narrow its definition of family, which is wider than that of any other country, to exclude siblings or adult children who are married.Although current American policies around family-based migration are the most generous in the world, the results look much different in practice because of limits on the number of visas that can be granted in each category.“There is a certain mindlessness to family immigration when you take into account eligibility and time,”  said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, co-founder of the Migration Policy Institute, a research organization. “Someone qualifies, but it may take 20 years before a visa is open to them.”“There is a major undisputed advantage to family immigration, chain migration; it’s become apparently a dirty word,” he said. “You have someone here who will show you the ropes, who will take you in that can set up employment for you. When it comes to immigrant integration, family is very important.”You could envision a merit-based system that incorporates characteristics of our current system. It could grant points to people who have family members in the United States, or who come from countries that are not highly represented in the current population.In that case, it might be desirable to pay attention to the weight each category is given and to adjust based on economic and social outcomes.“That is how you keep a point selection system,” Mr. Papademetriou said. “Everything else is just blind faith or politics. Our system that exists today is just politics.”“Immigration is social engineering,” said Mr. Gest, the George Mason University professor. “You’re building the population of the future.”Supported byOp-Ed ContributorLOS ANGELES — To no one’s surprise, President Trump, who has been doubling down on his anti-immigrant rhetoric, used his State of the Union address to draw parallels between the Central American gang MS-13 and law-abiding immigrants in the United States.The next week, he reiterated that “MS-13 killers” are “pouring into our country.” This kind of language, long a Trump trademark, was used as a political strategy just a few months ago in Virginia during the failed bid of the Republican candidate for governor, Ed Gillespie. It was also on display in the campaign of Kim Guadagno, a Republican who lost the race to replace Chris Christie as governor of New Jersey.In their quest to retake the House or the Senate (or both), Democrats should not shy away from incorporating and welcoming immigrants into their own rhetoric. When Republicans embark on meanspirited immigrant bashing, Democrats should take notes from Harry Reid’s 2010 re-election victory in Nevada and Ralph Northam’s 2017 gubernatorial win in Virginia. Both Mr. Reid and Mr. Northam rebuffed racially charged anti-immigrant campaigns, standing up for Dreamers, and in the process winning over Latino voters alongside a coalition of progressive and moderate college-educated whites.In 2010, Mr. Reid made a strong stand for the Dream Act while competing against a Republican, Sharron Angle, who ran a nativist campaign equating immigrants with gang members. Mr. Reid defied the polls and won re-election on the strength of very high Latino turnout — and no signs of a white working-class backlash.In 2016, Nevada proved to be one of the bright spots for Democrats. Mr. Reid’s strategy was embraced by his successor, Catherine Cortez Masto, who became the first Latina elected to the Senate.In the wake of Mr. Trump’s victory, there has been a renewed focus on the so-called white working-class vote, a demographic segment that has been getting smaller each year and has been trending away from Democrats for a long time. While it is true that compared with Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton lost ground with that segment of the electorate, the clues to a new Democratic majority may be found in the coalition that elected Mr. Northam governor of Virginia, or perhaps more accurately, voted against Mr. Gillespie and his immigrant bashing.Before the vote in Virginia, pundits on both the right and left were speculating that Mr. Gillespie’s anti-immigrant strategy was working. But in the end, election results and polling data in Virginia proved all that thinking was wrong. While each state has its own demographics and distinct politics, Virginia has voters who span demographic and economic spectrums. Majorities of voters of all races and ethnicities rejected anti-immigrant stereotypes as ugly and wrong.Data speaks louder than punditry, and our regression analysis of survey data paints a clear picture. Exposure to Mr. Gillespie’s MS-13 ads actually helped drive white college-educated voters away from the Republicans. When we analyzed findings for white independents and Republicans, voters who were aware of the MS-13 ads were significantly more likely to vote for Mr. Gillespie’s Democratic opponent. What should be alarming for Republicans is that this effect wasn’t limited to the governor’s race. The Gillespie campaign had coattail effects, but of the wrong stripe. Across all racial groups, those who were aware of Mr. Gillespie’s MS-13 ads were significantly more likely to vote for Democratic candidates for Virginia’s House of Delegates.This means that not only is it morally just for Democrats to position themselves as the party that stands against hatred and bigotry and in favor of inclusiveness and opportunity, but it is also a strategically sound position for winning votes. Simultaneously, it sends a clear, welcoming message to Latino, African-American and Asian-American voters, while also winning over enough of the white voters who also oppose immigrant bashing.This phenomenon is particularly true of voters who will decide crucial House and Senate races in 2018: people of color and white college-educated voters — also known as the Democratic base. Mr. Trump and his fellow Republicans are clearly gearing up for a similar anti-immigrant effort in 2018. But now the mask has been pulled off. Voters get it. Democrats have an opportunity to speak out strongly against bigotry. And in doing so, they have a path to victory in 2018 and beyond.Matt A. Barreto is a political scientist at U.C.L.A. and a co-founder of the polling firm Latino Decisions.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsJust like the decision to end the DACA program for nearly 800,000 undocumented childhood arrivals, the T.P.S. announcement is politically motivated and is probably an attempt to satisfy President Trump’s anti-immigrant base. Although the choice to end a supposedly temporary program that has nonetheless lasted for 17 years may sound rational, the real-world consequences of such a wide-reaching move will be immediate and severe — and may even contribute to a new cycle of illegal immigration.A similar pattern could repeat itself, as conditions are only marginally better today. The Salvadoran government is already strained in its battle against corruption, crime and violence — including one of the world’s highest homicide rates. MS-13 is almost certain to take advantage of the impending disruption as deportees arrive in El Salvador. Worse, young American citizens of Salvadoran origin will be left behind if their parents are expelled, making them more vulnerable to recruitment by criminal groups.To be sure, as President Trump has noted, responsibility for the problems with the current situation lies with the T.P.S. program itself. The administration is correct that the designation was intended to be temporary relief after a pair of earthquakes in 2001. In practice, however, past presidents routinely extended the program in part because of longstanding political, economic and security conditions in the country — which would only be made worse by ending the protection. Extending T.P.S. was a way to kick the can down the road and avoid facing real policy choices. Consequently, program recipients became more integrated into United States society every year, progressively raising the human costs of termination.The Trump administration’s decision to pull the plug only creates more uncertainty and chaos. In doing so, the president has further eroded the United States’ standing in Latin America and sowed bad will in significant communities that have contributed so much to this country and clearly embrace its values.Michael Shifter is president of the Inter-American Dialogue and Ben Raderstorf is program associate in the Peter D. Bell Rule of Law program.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — With the fate of hundreds of thousands of young, undocumented immigrants in the balance, the Senate on Monday began an open-ended debate on immigration — an exceedingly rare step that, in effect, will allow senators to attempt to build a bill from scratch on the Senate floor.The highly unusual debate, expected to unfold throughout the week, will test whether a series of legislative concepts and proposals championed by President Trump and a variety of Republicans and Democrats can garner 60 votes, the threshold for a measure to pass the Senate. No one has any idea how it will turn out.“Whoever gets to 60 wins,” Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, told reporters last week. “And it will be an opportunity for 1,000 flowers to bloom.”The debate kicked off Monday evening with a procedural vote on an unrelated House-passed measure that will serve as a shell for building an immigration bill. By a vote of 97 to 1, with only Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, dissenting, senators took the first step toward consideration of the underlying measure, as expected.The push on immigration comes against the backdrop of a ticking clock, and months of congressional inaction.“As the Senate is poised to start debate on the humanitarian crisis Donald Trump caused when he cruelly ended DACA, here’s what every sitting Senator should remember: Americans want the Dream Act — not cruel deals that go against basic American values,” said Corinne Ball, campaign director for MoveOn.org, a liberal activist group.Conservatives and anti-immigration groups are just as vociferous.“It was President Obama who created a cruel situation by making promises to a group of illegal aliens who he had no authority to promise what he gave them,” said Rosemary Jenks, the director of government relations for NumbersUSA, a group that advocates limiting immigration. “President Trump had a duty to rescind that policy, because the Constitution makes very clear that Congress, not the White House, sets the laws in this land.”In such a polarized environment, there is a significant chance that the Senate will pass nothing by the end of the week — or that whatever measure the Senate does adopt will be thwarted by the House.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Mr. Trump’s election, on a wave of anti-immigrant fervor, has made the current negotiations even more difficult, senators say. The negotiations are complicated by Republicans’ demands to pair any protection for DACA recipients with an increase in border security, and limits on legal immigration, and by conflicting pronouncements from Mr. Trump.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The White House recently put forth its own proposal that meets those conditions; it would offer 1.8 million Dreamers a path to citizenship, in exchange for strict limits on legal immigration and the full $25 billion for the border wall. A number of Republican senators, led by Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, have drafted legislation that mirrors the White House plan, which will almost certainly be introduced as an amendment. Mr. McConnell said on Monday that he supported it.The American people have “heard many of my colleagues across the aisle insist this issue requires swift action,” Mr. McConnell said. “Now is the time to back up the talk with the hard work of finding a workable solution. That means finding an agreement that can pass the Senate, pass the House and which the president will sign — not just making a point.”That group is focused on a narrower bill than the president would like, one that would pair a path to citizenship for the Dreamers with funding for the border wall.“The only way to achieve a solution to the DACA crisis is to keep it simple,” Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a member of the coalition, said on the Senate floor Monday.But Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican, said he could not support a bill that addresses only DACA and border security. “The president’s indicated he would not sign such a bill, so that really doesn’t meet my definition of success,” he said.At the same time, the idea of an open-ended debate is so novel that many newer senators say they have never experienced one, and are scurrying to learn the rules.“For a lot of us, we’re going to have to learn this process,” said Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota, who was elected in 2014.Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, marveled, “Been here seven years — I’ve never seen anything like it.”Immigrant rights groups are nervous, and do not know quite what to expect. Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group, put it this way: “This is going to be an uncertain, wild week.”Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  The U.S. Justice Department has announced it has reached a settlement with a Florida city over its policies of sharing information with federal immigration authorities.As part of the settlement, West Palm Beach sent a memorandum Tuesday to its employees stating they may share information regarding citizenship and immigration status with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The Justice Department singled out the South Florida city and 22 other jurisdictions in January when it sent letters demanding a review of its practices of information sharing. The city filed a complaint in February challenging the Justice Department's power to impose conditions on grants based on cooperation with immigration officials.Earlier this month, the Trump administration sued California for state laws passed last year to limit local authorities' collaboration with federal immigration authorities.Go to Home Page »Supported byThe Trump administration is taking its campaign against illegal immigration to the workplace.“We are taking work-site enforcement very hard,” said Thomas D. Homan, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in a speech in October. “Not only are we going to prosecute the employers who knowingly hire the illegal aliens, we are going to detain and remove the illegal alien workers.”When agents raid workplaces, they often demand to see employees’ immigration documents and make arrests. But after the agents leave, it is difficult for the government to meaningfully penalize businesses that hire unauthorized immigrants.Instead, according to law enforcement officials and experts with differing views of the immigration debate, a primary goal of such raids is to dissuade those working illegally from showing up for their jobs — and to warn prospective migrants that even if they make it across the border, they may end up being captured at work.Targeting 7-Eleven, a mainstay in working-class communities from North Carolina to California, seems to have conveyed the intended message.“It’s causing a lot of panic,” said Oscar Renteria, the owner of Renteria Vineyard Management, which employs about 180 farmworkers who are now pruning grapevines in the Napa Valley.When word of the raids spread, he received a frenzy of emails from his supervisors asking him what to do if immigration officers showed up at the fields. One sent a notice to farmhands warning them to stay away from 7-Eleven stores in the area.“Our work force frequently visits 7-Elevens,” said Mr. Renteria. “They’re very nervous. It’s another form of reminding them that they’re not welcome.”The Obama administration largely took a lower-profile approach to enforcement, auditing employers’ compliance in documenting their workers’ status without conducting many on-site investigations. A handful of employers faced prominent criminal cases in recent years, but most companies employing workers illegally avoid serious charges, because it is often impossible to prove that they knew someone had handed in fake documents.“The consequences are not that harsh, and the effect of the enforcement is less than it should be,” said Jessica M. Vaughan, the director of policy studies for the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates tighter restrictions on immigration.The law requires employers only to ensure that documents appear to be valid, and federal law prohibits them from requiring specific types of identification from workers.Employers negotiate reduced administrative fines and sometimes put political pressure on local officials when they become targets, making the punishment for companies “weaker than it should be,” Ms. Vaughan said. “There are employers for whom the penalties are just the cost of doing business.”The more lasting effect of raids is to spread fear among undocumented workers, who often end up bearing the brunt of enforcement action at the workplace.“Having some semblance of a fear of workers’ being arrested will have a behavioral shift,” said William Riley, who spent 20 years as an ICE special agent, under both Bush presidencies and the Clinton and Obama administrations, and is now a consultant at Guidepost Solutions, working on corporate compliance. Mr. Riley said that under the last administration, people were more lax about working illegally, assuming they wouldn’t be arrested.“There was slightly more complacency when it was pretty well known that there wasn’t a fear of being arrested in your workplace,” Mr. Riley said, nor much of a deterrent to “using fake documents to get a job.”Mr. Renteria said he expected raids on farms soon, because the industry is a big employer of “people with complicated immigration status.” More than half of California’s agriculture workers lack documents, according to a federal survey. Mr. Renteria worries that if agents home in on the Napa area, no one will stay to harvest the grapes.“They will start calling their cousins, aunts and uncles and finding the safest place where the work is,” he said.The last flurry of public, on-site investigations happened under President George W. Bush, who sent immigration agents to several meatpacking plants and other workplaces. Those raids led to hundreds of arrests of workers and prompted many other employees to stop reporting to work, according to local news reports. But they also enraged advocates for immigrants and drew complaints from business owners.The Obama administration changed tack and pursued employers mainly by inspecting their paperwork. Such audits doubled from fiscal years 2009 to 2013, reaching 3,127, then declined sharply.Law enforcement may welcome a more aggressive approach under the new administration. But sending armed agents to the doorsteps of American companies could prove politically uncomfortable for Mr. Trump, who has portrayed himself as an ally to business.Doris Meissner learned how quickly local politicians can spring into action when their hometown industries feel threatened. As head of the agency that preceded ICE, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, from 1993 to 2000, Ms. Meissner tried to focus on holding employers accountable.She approved the start of Operation Vanguard in the 1990s, in which the agency asked for employee records in several Nebraska meatpacking plants. When it came time to pursue charges against some employers, Ms. Meissner said, she started receiving frantic calls from Nebraskans on Capitol Hill.“The politics gets hot and heavy,” Ms. Meissner said. “These are communities that are heavily reliant on these industries. This is the major employer. These are the major consumers at the stores and the bowling alleys.”Ms. Meissner says work-site raids don’t work in the long term because they fail to address the real magnet drawing people into the country: a need for laborers.Cracking down on employers who violate the law is crucial, she said, and it isn’t right to employ people who are here illegally. But without a visa system allowing unmet labor needs to be addressed with foreigners, she said, ICE shouldn’t expect patchwork enforcement stings to persuade farms, hotels or meatpackers to stop employing unauthorized workers.“When your laws don’t align with the market, then the market is always going to win,” Ms. Meissner said.Advocates for immigrant workers said the raids were just the most recent source of a quiet terror reverberating across factory floors since Mr. Trump took office.“When you have such a public thing happening close to home, folks feel the presence of ICE constantly,” said Mariela Martinez, the organizing director of the Garment Worker Center in Los Angeles. But her clients have families and children here, Ms. Martinez said, so they can’t just pack their bags and go.“It’s not motivating people to self-deport,” she said. “It’s motivating people to not use their labor rights. It’s causing people to distrust government agencies.”Ms. Martinez helps people in the garment industry file claims for back pay with the state when their employers pay them less than they’re owed. She said far fewer workers asked for restitution last year compared with 2016, partly because of concern that their bosses would call ICE if they spoke up.That was the punishment one manufacturer meted out to Pablo, a 36-year-old sewing worker in Los Angeles who would not give his last name because he lacks papers and fears being identified by ICE. When he received a check for $92 after working three 11-hour days at a garment factory last month, Pablo insisted that he deserved more.His boss responded by offering to pay him what he was owed, but only if Pablo offered up his home address. After signing another check, Pablo said, the factory owner said that he would call immigration officials and direct them to Pablo’s door.“You feel terrible. You feel uncomfortable,” Pablo said. “I was so scared.” He called Ms. Martinez and they returned together the next day to tell the employer that the threat constituted illegal retaliation under California law. The employer backed down.The 7-Eleven raids will give garment bosses even more control over their workers, Pablo said.“Now they know the president is on their side,” he said, “so they feel like they can intimidate people and treat them badly and they will never talk.”Still, Pablo has been here since he was 17, and has no plans to leave yet. He has bills to pay.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSGood morning.Don’t write an obituary for the Orange Curtain just yet. For years, it seemed that the demographic change in Orange County might push the suburban enclave to shed its image as a conservative island. And in 2016, voters chose a Democrat candidate for president for the first time since the Great Depression.But now, political leaders there seem poised to reclaim their role as a counterpoint to much of the rest of California. On Tuesday, the county Board of Supervisors took two significant votes: One scrapped a previously approved plan to open temporary shelters for the homeless in the wealthy towns of Huntington Beach, Irvine and Laguna Niguel. In the other, the board voted to join a lawsuit from the Trump administration against California’s so-called sanctuary state law. Both votes from the all-Republican board were unanimous, though one member was not present.“We cannot let the state begin cherry-picking which federal laws it decides to follow,” Supervisor Michelle Steel said in a statement after the meeting. Immigrant rights advocates called the vote “shameful” and said they were “scapegoating our own communities.” Other opponents reminded the jurors that Orange County was a leader in backing Proposition 187, an anti-illegal immigrant measure that was later struck down by the courts.It is unclear how the county will now deal with the hundreds of people it forced out of a homeless encampment along the Santa Ana River earlier this year, but county leaders say they expect local leaders to discuss options at a court hearing on Tuesday.We want to hear from you: Do you think city and county governments have the right to challenge state laws? And do you see the recent battles as signs that California is not as liberal as many perceive it to be?The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)The lawsuit describes Mr. Roeder as a prankster who poses as the company’s chief executive and argues with employees. In the Burbank branch he picked apart a burger in the middle of the restaurant, claimed it was contaminated, and stepped on it theatrically.The lawsuit says Mr. Roeder caused “significant and irreparable” harm to the chain, which is seeking damages of more than $25,000.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Mr. Judd is the president of the National Border Patrol Council, a frequent guest on Fox News and a reliably vocal supporter of the Trump administration’s hard-line immigration agenda. On Sunday, he was interviewed on “Fox & Friends,” one of the president’s favorite programs.What followed was a public mind meld with the president, one that has frequently occurred since Mr. Trump took office.“Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate; they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said during the segment. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.”“Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release,” the president wrote. “Getting more dangerous. ‘Caravans’ coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW.”The president and his advisers are seeking to harden immigration laws. In a call with reporters on Monday, senior White House officials said that Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, had attended over 100 meetings on ways to push forward.But in the meantime, Mr. Judd, a 20-year veteran of the Border Patrol and leader of the estimated 18,000-member labor union, has caught Mr. Trump’s eye and earned the president’s praise for his television appearances.Mr. Judd has reiterated the same talking points on Fox News, including urging Republicans to support Mr. Trump’s push for a border wall, ending the so-called catch-and-release practice and lauding the administration’s efforts on securing borders.Mr. Judd, of course, has not been elevated to the White House. But he has been publicly spotted in the president’s midst.In an interview on Monday, Mr. Judd said he and the union came to Mr. Trump’s attention during the 2016 presidential campaign. After seeing Mr. Judd quoted in a news story, Mr. Trump reached out.“Senator Ted Cruz quoted me from either a congressional hearing or a TV interview,” Mr. Judd said, “and immediately after, the Trump campaign reached out and strongly requested our endorsement.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The National Border Patrol Council obliged in what was the first time the union had backed a presidential candidate. Mr. Judd said the primary reasons for the endorsement were rooted in Obama administration policies that he and other agents say impaired their ability to secure the border.Of particular disdain was the catch-and-release policy. “We weren’t allowed to or given the resources to do our jobs,” Mr. Judd said. “So we decided to make our voices heard.”In January, Mr. Trump publicly praised Mr. Judd’s continued support.Among his fellow Border Patrol agents, however, opinions of Mr. Judd diverge.Some rank-and-file agents call Mr. Judd a strong advocate for the force, including pushing for more personnel and better technology. Others say that Mr. Judd has, on occasion, taken positions that some agents call bizarre.Last year, Agent Rogelio Martinez was killed while on patrol in Texas and his partner, Agent Stephen Garland, was seriously injured. Mr. Judd and other National Border Patrol Council officials have repeatedly said the two agents were the victims of a savage attack by smugglers or undocumented immigrants.No evidence of smugglers was ever found in the area, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation said it was possible that the men were hurt accidentally. Oscar Carrillo, the local sheriff, helped investigate the case and concluded that the two men could have been hit by a vehicle.Mr. Judd credits Mr. Trump for improving morale at the Border Patrol, which he said had been demoralized by the Obama administration. Mr. Judd has also used his relationship with the president to push for hiring the additional Border Patrol agents and for the reversal of several Obama-era policies. (The agents have not yet been hired.)And Mr. Judd said he voiced his concerns to the Trump transition team about Mark Morgan, a former F.B.I. agent who was appointed chief of the Border Patrol late in the Obama administration. Mr. Trump ousted Mr. Morgan just days after assuming the presidency.Mr. Judd is a Border Patrol agent stationed in Montana, where he has also forged ties with Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat. He was Mr. Tester’s guest to Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address in January.Still, Mr. Judd said, he never agreed with the statement and the union recently completed a survey of its members who “overwhelmingly say a wall system is necessary to securing the border.”See More »Go to Home Page »On Thursday, the Senate voted to advance three different plans, but each failed.Proposal by:House RepublicansNo vote scheduledWhite House39-603 Democrats Yes, 14 Republicans NoSenator FlakeNo vote scheduledGang of SixNo vote scheduledMcCain-Coons52-474 Republicans Yes, 1 Democrat NoCommon Sense Coalition54-458 Republicans Yes, 3 Democrats NoProposal by:House RepublicansNo vote scheduledWhite House39-603 Ds Yes, 14 Rs NoSenator FlakeNo vote scheduledGang of SixNo vote scheduledMcCain-Coons52-474 Rs Yes, 1 D NoCommon Sense Coalition54-458 Rs Yes, 3 Ds NoHere is how different proposals address the Dreamers’ protections and five other critical issues:MORE GENEROUSMORE RESTRICTIVEMORE GENEROUSMORE RESTRICTIVEAbout 700,000 undocumented immigrants are currently shielded from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. An additional 1.1 million Dreamers were eligible for the program, but they did not apply. Mr. Trump announced plans to phase out the program by March 5.Path tocitizenship andparent benefitPath tocitizenshipNocitizenshipProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Path tocitizenship andparent benefitPath tocitizenshipNocitizenshipProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.In 2001, the Dream Act was introduced to provide a pathway to citizenship for these immigrants without additional immigration measures. Democrats still favor that approach, but it does not have enough support in the Republican-controlled Congress.NO MONEYMORE MONEYNo fundingfor a border wallNO MONEYMORE MONEYNo fundingfor a border wallSmall amountof moneyMoremoneyNomoneyProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Small amountof moneyMoremoneyNomoneyProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.LESS AGGRESSIVEMORE AGGRESSIVELimited fundingfor border securityLESS AGGRESSIVEMORE AGGRESSIVELimited fundingfor border securityLimitedfundingMorefundingMostaggressiveProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.LimitedfundingMorefundingMostaggressiveProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.STATUS QUOMORE ENFORCEMENTNo increasedenforcement of immigration lawsSTATUS QUOMORE ENFORCEMENTNo increasedenforcement of immigration lawsA separate vote to advance an amendment that would withhold federal grants from sanctuary cities failed in the Senate on Thursday. Four Democrats joined the Republicans in supporting it, but they did not reach the 60 votes needed to proceed.StatusquoHeavierenforcementMost aggressiveenforcementProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.MostaggressiveenforcementStatusquoHeavierenforcementProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.None of the other major plans include increased interior enforcement measures.STATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current visa systemSTATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current visa systemAnother one of the administration’s four priorities is ending “chain migration” — migration that allows legal immigrants to sponsor extended family members.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.STATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current diversity lottery visa systemSTATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current diversity lottery visa systemStatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Additional source: Migration Policy InstituteTrump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.How Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeIn mid-October, Keston Lett arrived at Kennedy Airport on a JetBlue flight from his home in Trinidad and Tobago. As Mr. Lett was passing through customs, a border agent caught a strong odor coming from his bag and noticed that its bottom “was unusually thick and heavy,” court papers say.The agent tested the bag for cocaine and when the test proved positive, he opened it and found more than two kilos of the drug inside. Mr. Lett was arrested on the spot. The next day, he appeared in Federal District Court in Brooklyn where he was charged with importing drugs into the country.While it is hardly unusual for customs officials to nab drug suspects at New York’s airports, what happened next not only broke the law, his lawyer says, but also seemed in keeping with a recent shift in immigration policy that a federal judge in Brooklyn has complained of twice in separate cases in the last three months.A few weeks ago, Mr. Lett was freed from the custody of the Brooklyn court and was supposed to be released on a $30,000 bond to his aunt’s house in New Jersey. He never made it. Instead, court papers say, he was rearrested on an immigration detainer and sent to an immigration detention center at the Hudson County Correctional Facility in Kearny, N.J.According to both Mr. Lett’s lawyer and the judge, Dora L. Irizarry, the government cannot decide to criminally prosecute immigrants and then keep them locked up on immigration detainers, if, as their cases proceed, they are granted bail. To do so, they said, was to take what amounted to a second bite of the apple, one that skirted the constitutional protections of the criminal-justice system by using the separate immigration process to obtain a result they failed to get the first time.“The executive branch has a choice to make,” the lawyer, Michelle Gelernt, wrote last week in a motion to dismiss Mr. Lett’s charges. “Whether to proceed with the criminal case against Mr. Lett or whether to proceed instead with his removal.”“What the executive branch cannot do,” Ms. Gelernt said, “is to use its immigration authority to detain Mr. Lett while pursuing its criminal case against him.”In making her argument, Ms. Gelernt, of the Federal Defenders of New York, relied on two recent orders by Judge Irizarry that came in similar cases of immigrants who were arrested on detainers after being freed on bail. In her orders, Judge Irizarry wrote that by holding immigrants released on bail with immigration detainers, the government was essentially making “an end run” around the country’s bail laws.At play in all three cases is a tension between the Bail Reform Act, which protects defendants’ rights to be released before their trials, and the Immigration and Nationality Act, which gives the government the power to detain and deport people who are in the country illegally. Though appeals courts have not yet addressed the conflict, Judge Irizarry wrote in one of her orders that criminal cases legally take precedence over deportation efforts, adding in the other that the government cannot “proceed on a dual criminal prosecution and deportation track.”But by using its immigration powers to hold immigrant suspects freed on bail by legal means, the government, Judge Irizarry wrote, had placed in jeopardy “the constitutional rights of the accused.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In both of the cases she considered, Judge Irizarry gave the government two options: it could either deport the defendants through the immigration system or dismiss the charges against them. But it could not detain them for immigration violations while continuing to pursue their criminal prosecutions, she said.The first case, decided in November, concerned a Dominican man, Saba Rosario Ventura, who arrived in New York from Santo Domingo on April 7 with a green card that had expired the previous day. When border agents at Kennedy Airport determined that Mr. Ventura had been deported once before for an immigration violation, they took him into custody.In August, he was indicted in Brooklyn on immigration charges and released on bail within two weeks with his case still pending. But instead of going free as the court had ordered, Mr. Ventura was arrested by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, and is now in the Hudson County jail as the government decides if it will appeal.The defendant in the second case, decided on Dec. 20, is Salomon Benzadon-Boutin, a dual citizen of Panama and Spain. In July 2015, Mr. Benzadon-Boutin arrived in New York on a Panamanian visa that had expired six months later.In October — while in the country illegally — Mr. Benzadon-Boutin was charged with money laundering after an investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration. Although he was granted bail in November and was supposed to be released, he was arrested on an immigration detainer and taken to the Hudson County jail.In court papers, Mr. Lett’s lawyer, Ms. Gelernt, said that she spoke in December with the Customs and Border Protection agent who arrested her client and claims the agent told her that detaining immigrants who had already been freed on bail marked a change in policy.“The agent verified that, under previous policy, arriving aliens who were charged with federal crimes and released on bail pursuant to the Bail Reform Act, were routinely released after a brief detention at JFK,” Ms. Gelernt wrote. “The CBP agent further informed defense counsel that, as a result of a recent executive order, CBP was now instructed to request ‘bed space’ in an immigration detention facility for arriving aliens charged with federal crimes, but released on bond.”Teddy Camlen, a spokesman for Customs and Border Protection in New York, said the authority to use detainers in bail situations was not new, but was being newly enforced.“These are charges that could possibly get people deported and we don’t want them out walking on the street,” Mr. Camlen said. “That’s the whole point of the detainer.”See More »Go to Home Page »The suit, filed in King County Superior Court in Seattle, alleges that hotel employees in that state routinely gave immigration agents personal information about guests, including their names, birth dates and license plate numbers. At least 9,000 names were turned over, according to the suit, though only six were known to have been detained.Washington’s attorney general, Robert W. Ferguson, said that he began an inquiry after reading reports about the activity in Arizona, which prompted widespread condemnation and calls to boycott the hotel chain. One of those articles quoted an immigration lawyer who said he had heard about the same thing happening in Washington.“Motel 6 implied this was a local problem,” Mr. Ferguson said in a statement. “We have found that is not true. Washingtonians have a right to privacy, and protection from discrimination. I will hold Motel 6 accountable and uncover the whole story of their disturbing conduct.”As part of Mr. Ferguson’s investigation, Motel 6 initially provided information about 11 of its 26 locations in Washington, six of which, the company said, had been assisting immigration agents. As the inquiry continues, the number of names turned over, and people detained as a result, will most likely go up, Mr. Ferguson said.“To help ensure that this does not occur again, we will be issuing a directive to every one of our more than 1,400 locations nationwide, making clear that they are prohibited from voluntarily providing daily guest lists” to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Raiza Rehkoff, a spokeswoman for G6 Hospitality, the Texas-based parent company of Motel 6, said at the time.In response to questions about the lawsuit in Washington, Jillian Perera, a spokeswoman for G6, reiterated that employees nationwide had been forbidden in September from engaging in the practice. “Motel 6 takes this matter very seriously,” she added, “and we have and will continue to fully cooperate with the office of the state attorney general.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Ferguson said that his staff had interviewed Motel 6 employees, who described how the information was provided to ICE agents.The lawsuit says that an ICE agent would come to the reception desk and request the guest list, sometimes daily. The receptionist would print out the list and give it to the agent, along with a “law enforcement acknowledgment form” for the agent to sign, confirming receipt of the information.“Motel 6 staff observed ICE identify guests of interest to ICE, including by circling guests with Latino-sounding names,” the lawsuit said.The suit asserts that in cooperating with ICE, Motel 6 employees violated state and federal laws that protect consumers and those that guard against discrimination, as well as the State Constitution. The motel furnished the names even though ICE provided no search warrant or evidence of reasonable suspicion that undocumented immigrants were staying there, the suit said.ICE, which is not a defendant in the lawsuit, said that it would not comment on the case. But Yasmeen Pitts O’Keefe, a spokeswoman, said in an email that, in general, “immigration enforcement actions are targeted and lead-driven, prioritizing individuals who pose a risk to our communities.”“It’s worth noting that hotels and motels have frequently been exploited by criminal organizations engaged in highly dangerous illegal enterprises, including human trafficking and human smuggling,” she said.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed “NO MORE DACA DEAL” and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced “liberal” laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the “nuclear option” to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact “tough laws NOW.”It was unclear whether the president’s tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a “Fox and Friends” segment on immigration that had aired minutes before.Whatever his intention, Mr. Trump’s Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country.As he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that “Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.”The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible.Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough.Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats “blew it” after having “had a great chance.”“But we’ll have to take a look,” he added.Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations.Mr. Evans said the president’s comments were “simply unacceptable.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“NEED WALL!” he added.The president’s tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security.But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s tough stance on immigration.The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called “Catch & Release,” a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them.Critics say the practice — which, contrary to the president’s tweet, is not enshrined in law — gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out.Mr. Trump’s tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on “Fox and Friends” by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past.“Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said on the program. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.”Mr. Judd also said that the “catch and release” policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States.A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then.Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials.“Many of them know they won’t qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained,” said Roberto Corona, the group’s communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that country’s Congress.Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants.Ron Nixon and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington, and Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles.See More »Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - While people who voted for President Donald Trump are still largely supportive of his immigration policies, their approval has eroded somewhat since he took office, according to Reuters/Ipsos polling.As Trump plans to send troops to the U.S.-Mexico border, here are some key findings from an ongoing Reuters/Ipsos immigration poll:ALL ADULTS** 41 percent said in March they approve of Trump's immigration policies, down from 48 percent in February 2017.** 21 percent said they "strongly approve" of Trump's handling of U.S. immigration, down from 27 percent in February 2017.** 38 percent said they "strongly disapproved," up from 31 percent in February 2017.GRAPHIC: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IwCrd1TRUMP VOTERSWhile about nine in 10 Trump voters still approve of the president's immigration policies, they are somewhat less enthusiastic about his performance now on one of the key issues he campaigned on.** 85 percent approve of Trump's handling of immigration, down from 88 in February 2017.** 51 percent said they "strongly approve" of Trump's handling of immigration, down from 57 percent in February 2017.HISPANICSMost Hispanics disapprove of the president and his immigration policies. Their disapproval has risen since he took office.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.** Overall, 27 percent of Hispanics said in March they approve of Trump's handling of immigration, down from 38 percent who said so in February 2017.** 10 percent of Hispanic adults "strongly approve" of Trump's immigration policies, down from 19 percent who said so in February 2017.WOMEN** 38 percent of all women approve of Trump's handling of immigration, down from 44 percent in February 2017.** 85 percent of women who voted for Trump approve of his immigration stance, down from 89 percent in February last year.TRUMP'S POPULARITYThe president's overall approval rating stood at a five-day rolling average of 39 percent as of April 2.(Reporting by Maria Caspani, Editing by Chris Kahn)Go to Home Page »The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and left that you might not have seen.“Although his phrasing was crude and unnecessary, Trump wasn’t wrong about the actual countries in question. Haiti, El Salvador, and many countries in Africa — and all over the world, for that matter — are indeed a horrible mess by any objective measure.”_____“In U.S. presidential elections, persons of color whose roots are in Asia, Africa and Latin America vote 4-1 Democratic, and against the candidates favored by American’s vanishing white majority. Not for the first time, liberal ideology comports precisely with liberal interests.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters._____“[Mr. Trump’s] comment was a clarifying moment. Such moments often make clear fundamentally contradictory visions of America. It’s impossible to negotiate with people who believe any change to America-as-they-see-it is an existential threat — and when they’re direct or boorish enough to say that out loud, it saves everyone the time and trouble of trying to compromise.”Even if it appears “almost unimaginably hard to figure out a way to ‘end chain migration’ that would both pass Congress and avoid a collapse of the immigration system,” a policy debate can still be had. But, Ms. Lind argues, “you can’t negotiate” with those who want no immigration. She sums up: “Either America is a nation of immigrants or it is a nation of blood and soil. It cannot be both.”Read more »_____“Republicans say they want a “merit-based” system of immigration. That has a nice, neutral sound. Who can argue against merit? But Trump has made clear that what he means to do is halt or reverse the demographic trends that are making this nation increasingly diverse — trends that are wholly consistent with U.S. history.”__________“Debating what exact word he used to further that longstanding practice is pointless. The real key here is that the sentiment expressed by Trump in that meeting — no matter what exact word(s) he chose — is one of intolerance. And that runs directly counter to America’s founding ideal.”_____See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump proposed legislation on Thursday that would provide a path to citizenship for as many as 1.8 million young undocumented immigrants in exchange for an end to decades of family-based migration policies, a costly border wall and a vast crackdown on other immigrants living in the country illegally.Describing the plan as “extremely generous” but a take-it-or-leave-it proposal, White House officials said they hoped it would be embraced by conservatives and centrists in Congress as the first step in an even broader effort to fix the nation’s immigration system.Officials said the legislation would pave the way to citizenship not only for the 690,000 people who had signed up for protection under an Obama-era program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, but also for another 1.1 million undocumented immigrants who would have qualified for the program but never applied. Mr. Trump ended the DACA program, whose protections did not include a path to citizenship, last September.But the new plan — drafted by Stephen Miller, the president’s hard-line domestic policy adviser, and John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff — was immediately rejected by Democrats, immigration advocates and some Republicans, with some describing it as nothing but an attempt to rid the country of immigrants and shut the nation’s borders.Republican and Democratic senators are working on a narrower immigration plan of their own. They hope that if it can pass the Senate with a strong bipartisan majority, it will put pressure on the House — where attempts at immigration overhauls have died in recent years — to pass the legislation as well.Senate passage of a bipartisan bill could perhaps leave Mr. Trump with the take-it-or-leave-it decision. Just over two weeks ago, in a televised negotiating session at the White House, Mr. Trump said he would sign anything that got to him.Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Jeff Flake of Arizona — Republicans who have in the past fought against hard-line immigration policies — said the Senate was unlikely to simply accept the president’s legislation.“We’re getting started without them,” Mr. Flake said. Mr. Graham said bluntly, “This is a negotiation.”Members of both parties said that legislation would have a better chance of passing if it focused on legal status for DACA recipients without a dramatic crackdown on illegal immigrants or new restrictions on legal immigration for extended family members.“If you start putting in all of these highly charged toxic issues, it’s just not going to work,” said Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Anti-immigration activists also assailed the plan, though for the opposite reason. Breitbart News greeted word of the president’s plan with the headline “Amnesty Don Suggests Citizenship for Illegal Aliens.”Under Mr. Trump’s plan, described to reporters by senior White House officials, young immigrants who were brought into the United States illegally as children would be granted legal status, would be allowed to work, and could become citizens over a 10-to-12-year period if they remained out of trouble with the law.In exchange, Congress would have to create a $25 billion trust fund to pay for a southern border wall, dramatically increase immigration arrests, speed up deportations, crack down on people who overstay their visas, prevent citizens from bringing their parents to the United States, and end a State Department program designed to encourage migration from underrepresented countries.White House officials said that the list of enhanced security measures — which have been on anti-immigration wish lists for decades — were nonnegotiable. They warned that if no deal is reached, DACA recipients will face deportation when the program fully expires on March 5.One senior official said the young immigrants would not be targeted, but are “illegal immigrants” who would be processed for deportation if they came into contact with immigration officers.Eddie Vale, a Democratic consultant working with a coalition of immigration groups, described the president’s proposal as an effort to sabotage bipartisan talks and win passage of “a white supremacist wish list.”Officials said the president’s decision to formally present a plan to Congress was a direct response to members of Congress, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, who had complained that they did not know where the president stood in the immigration debate.“We’re basically signaling that this is the bill the president can sign,” one senior official said during the briefing.Officials said they expected Mr. McConnell to bring the president’s plan to the Senate floor for a vote during the week of Feb. 5, just days before the Feb. 8 expiration of a short-term government spending plan.The strategy would work only if the Senate fails to reach a broad bipartisan accord on an alternative: legislation that would protect the Dreamers and bolster border security, but reject the most draconian aspects of the White House’s proposal.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And even as Mr. Trump was offering reassuring words to the Dreamers — “tell them not to worry,” he told reporters Wednesday evening — senior White House officials were emphasizing the more hard-line features of their forthcoming immigration proposal.Democratic lawmakers and activists say they will refuse to accept any proposal that requires them to forsake the well-being of other immigrants, including the parents of the Dreamers, to secure the fate of the young immigrants themselves.“It is shameful that the White House is holding these youth hostage in exchange for their extreme immigration agenda,” said Kevin Appleby, the senior director of international migration policy for the Center for Migration Studies.“Do we simply codify what DACA is and extend it out over a period of time, or do we try to go farther than that as the president is suggesting?” asked Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota. “If you do that, you have to address the issue of chain migration, and that’s where it becomes a lot more complicated.”Hard-liners, apparently led by Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, say the White House’s strategy needs to be considered — and that means four elements: Dreamers; border security and a wall; chain migration; and an end to the diversity visa lottery.“Everybody wants to alter reality in a way that sort of suits their needs,” Mr. Cornyn said. “But the reality is the president said there has to be four pillars. People just need to accept that and deal with it.”On Wednesday night, Mr. Graham held a meeting with a far larger group of about 30 senators. They decided that Mr. Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, and Mr. Cornyn would each function as a clearinghouse for ideas on immigration from their respective parties.“We’ve got more people in the room, which is good,” Mr. Graham said. “We’re getting more input. We’ve just got to turn it into more output.”See More »Go to Home Page »SAN FRANCISCO — Libby Schaaf, the Democratic mayor of Oakland since 2015, stepped into the middle of the national debate on immigration on Saturday when she warned of imminent raids by federal immigration agents in the San Francisco Bay Area.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House spokeswoman, told reporters Thursday that Ms. Schaaf’s actions were “under review” by the Justice Department. “I think it’s outrageous that a mayor would circumvent federal authorities and certainly put them in danger,” Ms. Sanders said.A spokesman for Ms. Schaaf, Justin Berton, said the mayor was “not aware of a review.”ICE said in a statement late Thursday that they had arrested 232 people during their sweep of the San Francisco Bay Area and that the operation ended Wednesday.In a city that for decades had one of California’s highest rates of violent crime, the number of burglaries, murders and shootings have sharply declined during Ms. Schaaf’s three years as mayor. Yet her tenure has made national headlines for scandal, tragedy and the disappointment of an iconic sports team announcing its plans to move.Here’s a look at Ms. Schaaf’s background and time as mayor.Ms. Schaaf, 52, is a dyed-in-the-wool liberal in a city where “Republican” is a dirty word.“Oakland has always been a place for social justice movements,” Ms. Schaaf said in an interview. “We’re a city that is fiercely proud of our diversity, full of artists and unique creative energy, but with a gritty authenticity.”Born in Oakland to a former flight attendant and traveling shoe salesman, Ms. Schaaf grew up in the Oakland Hills, a residential area more affluent and geographically distinct from the downtown parts of Oakland that suffered the crack epidemic and a flight of major businesses to other parts of the Bay Area. Ms. Schaaf — whose mother was deeply involved in civic projects, including running a volunteer program at a children’s hospital — has lived in the city most of her life, though she went to college in Florida and law school in Los Angeles.Ms. Schaaf worked as a lawyer for two years at a prominent law firm in Oakland before turning to politics. She served several years as an aide to other politicians, including Gov. Jerry Brown when he was mayor of Oakland, and was elected to the City Council in 2010. Four years later she was elected mayor.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As a former lawyer, Ms. Schaaf understands the potential pitfalls in warning unauthorized immigrants of an impending raid. But she approaches the issue in the style of an activist.Asked what her message was for immigrants who are in Oakland illegally, Ms. Schaaf said: “Your city wants you to be safe, wants to keep your family together and is proud to have you as part of our community.”The past few years have been a time of wrenching change for Oakland. The wealth generated by the tech industry across the San Francisco Bay is pushing up housing prices and making many neighborhoods unaffordable to any family not earning six figures. The economic pressures have caused the number of homeless people to rise to around 2,800, an increase of more than 25 percent since Ms. Schaaf took office in January 2015.In the city that gave rise to the Black Panthers, the African-American community has been shrinking drastically, from 47 percent of the population in the 1980 census to less than one quarter today. As black residents have moved out, Latinos and Asian-Americans have moved in.Ms. Schaaf has had to balance the courting of technology companies with the changes to the traditional working-class character of the city. “Hey, Google: You wouldn’t need all those buses if you’d open an office over here,” she was quoted as saying on the day of her swearing in.“I am here to run a Police Department, not a frat house,” Ms. Schaaf said in what became a cable-news sound bite du jour.Last year, Ms. Schaaf announced the appointment of a new police chief.The face-off with ICE is likely to score her political points in such an unabashedly liberal city, and Ms. Schaaf says she will continue to advocate for those being displaced by rising housing prices and for undocumented residents threatened with deportation.“I grew up with an acute awareness of the disparities within my own community,” she said. “It’s certainly something you can’t escape in Oakland.”She is running for re-election in November.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported by“The West Wing” met “The Apprentice” as President Trump and lawmakers debated immigration policy while cameras rolled.Over the course of about 55 minutes, members of both the House and the Senate discussed how best to protect undocumented immigrants who arrived as children, and whether to embrace a path to citizenship for millions of other immigrants. President Trump gave his endorsement to a plan for broad changes, even as the lawmakers debated a narrower deal that could be reached sooner.Here are some dramatic moments from the meeting.Instead, Mr. Trump invited a collection of lawmakers from both parties who have been deeply involved in the immigration fight for years. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has long been an advocate for a comprehensive immigration overhaul, while Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, has been a fierce critic of efforts to legalize illegal immigrants. Senator Richard J. Durbin III, Democrat of Illinois, has fought to legalize the Dreamers, who were brought to the United States illegally as children. Senators Michael Bennet of Colorado, a Democrat, and Jeff Flake of Arizona, a Republican, have been part of a small group trying to negotiate an immigration deal for months.Mr. Graham has always been a blunt-spoken proponent of a comprehensive immigration overhaul, often sparking fury from conservative hard-liners. But in Tuesday’s meeting, his embrace of a “pathway to citizenship” for 11 million illegal immigrants undercut conservatives in the room by prodding Mr. Trump to publicly endorse that idea for the first time.The president displayed bravado in his response to Mr. Graham, vowing repeatedly to “take the heat” from conservatives by embracing a comprehensive immigration overhaul that would include a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants. But he may not realize how much political trouble he has invited.Republicans like former President George W. Bush and Senator John McCain of Arizona have done the same in past years, only to relent in the face of furious opposition from conservative voters and activists. On Monday, the president admitted that he hasn’t been a politician as long as the others sitting at the table.That lack of experience — and the commensurate battle scars — may lead him to underestimate the reaction from his core supporters and some members of Congress to what conservatives will portray as “amnesty” for people in the country illegally. Mr. Trump is a president who watches hours of conservative television programs and scours right-wing websites. The message on immigration may be: traitor.In a city where gridlock has been the norm for years, Tuesday’s extraordinary meeting underscored a rarity in Washington — moments of partisan agreement. The exchange between Mr. Trump and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, was such a moment, as the Republican senator admitted that he would vote for a path to citizenship.That declaration prompted Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, one of the top Democrats in the House, to say he agrees with Mr. Grassley. It’s not clear that such agreement could survive a negotiation in which the details often matter more than a broad consensus.But even Mr. Trump appeared encouraged by the momentary agreement: “When was the last time that happened, Chuck?” Mr. Trump asked the Iowa senator.Ask anyone who was part of previous immigration fights and they will talk about poison pills — demands that were introduced with the knowledge that the other side could never accept them. Even amid the general sense of agreement on Tuesday, it was clear that poison pills could scuttle any deal. Democrats warned that Republican demands for an end to “chain migration” would “be an impediment to agreement.”The president’s response? He urged the Democrats to “negotiate” on those issues, and to bring him a deal once it’s worked out. The message from the president seemed to be: if lawmakers can avoid the pitfalls that have doomed previous negotiations, he won’t be the one to scuttle it in the end. “I’m not going to say, ‘Oh gee, I want this, or I want that,’ he said. ‘I’ll be signing it.’For Democrats at Tuesday’s meeting, their strategy became crystal clear: try to convince Mr. Trump to agree to legalize the Dreamers without any strings attached. Pushing other issues — like a border wall — to a later negotiation could clear the way for a quicker deal to replace Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that had protected illegal immigrants brought to the country as children.Senator Dianne Feinstein of California tried to pin the president down on just that point, and seemed to be succeeding until Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican majority leader, realized what was happening and jumped in.In the remarkable exchange with the president and Ms. Feinstein, the majority leader clearly feared that Mr. Trump was about to give away their leverage by agreeing to consider issues like chain migration at a later time.Mr. Trump’s response suggested that he was missing the nuances, but by the end Mr. McCarthy appeared to have some success in reminding the president that Republicans should press for conservative immigration priorities in exchange for a Dreamer deal.For some Republicans, like Senator David Perdue of Georgia, the best path forward is a narrow one — a deal to legalize the immigrants brought to the United States as children in exchange for added border security and a few other issues.Mr. Perdue made that case, urging Mr. Trump to hold back any grand ambitions for comprehensive immigration legislation that could get bogged down in a lengthy debate. The motivation may be the looming budget fight, which could lead to a government shutdown if lawmakers in both parties can’t reach agreement.Republicans like Mr. Perdue understand that a difficult and extended debate on immigration could threaten the budget talks in a pivotal election year, when he and his colleagues will have to face voters in November.This article was produced by Mikayla Bouchard, Alicia Parlapiano, Sameen Amin, David Botti, Natalie Reneau and Hamilton Boardman.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSAN DIEGO —  The Trump administration said Thursday that it ended special considerations to generally release pregnant women charged with being in the United States illegally while their cases wind through immigration court.U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said it scrapped a policy that took effect in August 2016 that pregnant women should be released unless they met limited criteria that required them to be held by law, such as serious criminal histories, or if there were "extraordinary circumstances."The new policy, which took effect in December but wasn't announced until Thursday, gives no blanket special consideration to pregnancy, though the agency says each case will be reviewed individually and women in their third trimester will generally be released.The move is the latest effort to scrap immigration policies created in the final two years of Barack Obama's administration. Shortly after Trump took office, rules that generally limited deportations to convicted criminals, public safety threats and recent border crossers were lifted, making anyone in the country illegally vulnerable. Deportation arrests have spiked more than 40 percent under Trump's watch.Administration officials said new rules on pregnant women aligned with the president's executive orders last year for heightened immigration enforcement."All across our enforcement portfolio, we're no longer exempting any individual from being subject to the law," said Philip Miller, deputy executive associate director of ICE's enforcement and removal operations.Women and immigrant advocacy groups, many who have criticized medical care at immigrant detention centers, swiftly condemned the change.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While authorities made clear that it would review cases individually and that officers may consider pregnancy, the new policy shifts the focus more toward detention."It's basically a different starting point," said Michelle Brané, the Women's Refugee Commission's director of migrant rights and justice program and a frequent critic of immigration detention. "They're shifting the presumption. There used to be a presumption that detention was not a good place for pregnant women.""This new policy further exposes the cruelty of Trump's detention and deportation force by endangering the lives of pregnant immigrant women," said Victoria Lopez, senior staff counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union.U.S. officials said it was unclear how many women would be affected by the new policy. Immigration and Customs Enforcement took 506 pregnant women into custody since the new policy took effect in December and had 35 last week.Immigration authorities are required by law to hold certain people regardless of pregnancy, including people convicted of crimes listed in the Immigration and Naturalization Act or placed in fast-track removal proceedings when they are arrested crossing the border.Officials say it's unclear how many women who would have been released under the old policy will now be held.Go to Home Page »WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va. —  Tossing his "boring" prepared remarks into the air, President Donald Trump on Thursday unleashed a fierce denunciation of the nation's immigration policies, calling for tougher border security while repeating his unsubstantiated claim that "millions" of people voted illegally in California.Trump was in West Virginia to showcase the benefits of Republican tax cuts, but he took a big and meandering detour to talk about his tough immigration and trade plans. He linked immigration with the rise of violent gangs like MS-13 and suggested anew that there had been widespread fraud in the 2016 election."In many places, like California, the same person votes many times. You probably heard about that," Trump said. "They always like to say, 'Oh, that's a conspiracy theory.' Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people. And it's very hard because the state guards their records. They don't want us" to see them.While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., past studies have found it to be exceptionally rare.Trump initially claimed last year that widespread voting fraud had occurred in what appeared to be a means of explaining away his popular-vote defeat. Earlier this year the White House disbanded a controversial voter fraud commission amid infighting and lawsuits as state officials refused to cooperate.In recent weeks, Trump has been pushing back more against the restraints of the office to offer more unvarnished opinions and take policy moves that some aides were trying to forestall. His remarks in West Virginia, like so many of his previous planned policy speeches, quickly came instead to resemble one of his free-wheeling rallies."This was going to be my remarks. They would have taken about two minutes," Trump said as he tossed his script into the air. "This is boring. We have to tell it like it is."As he has done before, Trump conjured images of violence and suffering when he described the perils of illegal immigration, though statistics show that immigrants commit crimes at a lower rate than citizens. He dubbed MS-13 gang members "thugs" and said his administration's crackdown on the group was "like a war.""MS-13 is emblematic of evil, and we're getting them out by the hundreds," said Trump, who sat on stage at a long table in a gym draped in American flags and decorated with signs that read "USA open for business." ''This is the kind of stuff and crap we are allowing in our country, and we can't do it anymore."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Invoking the lines of his June 2015 campaign kickoff speech, in which he suggested that some Mexican immigrants were rapists, the president mused about the threat of violence among immigrants and appeared to make reference to a caravan of migrants that had been working its way north through Mexico toward the United States."Remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower when I opened? Everybody said, 'Oh, he was so tough,' and I used the word rape," he said. "And yesterday it came out where this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before. They don't want to mention that."It was not clear what Trump was referring to. White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said Trump wasn't talking about the caravan but rather about extreme victimization of those making the journey north with smugglers in general. And press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders later said that she was "not sure why the media is acting like this isn't a well-established fact — women and young girls are brutally victimized on the journey north."Trump also defended his proposed tariff plan, which many of his fellow Republicans fear will start a trade war with China. He criticized West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat who has expressed openness to working with the White House, for opposing the GOP tax plan. He praised attendees Rep. Evan Jenkins and state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, both running in the Republican primary for Senate next month, suggesting an applause test between the two. And, of course, he reminisced about his 2016 electoral victory in the Mountain State.All of that overshadowed any time spent promoting the tax plan.It underscored the frustration of many congressional Republicans with the president's frequent indiscipline. Many members of his own party have blamed the president's lack of focus for helping to stymie their agenda, and they are eager for him to focus on the tax cut, the most significant legislation achievement on which to run in the upcoming midterm elections.While Trump went off script, the attendees —an assemblage of state politicians, local business owners, workers and families — stayed dutifully on task, talking about how the tax cuts have helped them.One woman, Jessica Hodge, tearfully told Trump: "I just want to say thank you for the tax cuts. This is a big deal for our family." Jenkins said that "West Virginians understand your policies are working" and that Trump was "welcome to come back any time."___Lemire reported from New York.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_luceyGo to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump is hoping to counter Chinese efforts to bolster its economic influence in the Americas during his inaugural trip to Latin America next week amid an escalating trade fight and his harsh rhetoric on immigration.The White House said Thursday that Trump is set to attend the Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru, and will travel to Bogota, Colombia, to promote good governance and democracy in the Western Hemisphere. The trip will bring the president face to face with the targets of some of his fiercest ire and follows his announcement that he will direct the deployment of National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border.The deployment has sparked widespread outrage in Mexico, which had already been enraged by Trump's pledge to construct a border wall.Trump is also set to face scrutiny over his recently announced tariffs on steel and aluminum — though exporters to the U.S. who will be in attendance have been granted temporary waivers.Administration officials said no news is expected at the summit on the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement or any on new sanctions on the Venezuelan government. Trump will hold meetings with several regional partners, though the final roster was still being finalized. Trump will meet with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos in Bogota.Trump is not expected to hold a meeting with Cuban leader Raul Castro, who will be attending the summit in one of his final acts before stepping down from office later this month.As China has sought to make inroads in the region by funding infrastructure works and investing in businesses, the White House said Trump will argue that the U.S. should be the "partner of choice" for the region. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross will also travel to Lima to participate in an associated summit for business leaders, the White House said.Go to Home Page »The Trump administration is considering a plan to separate parents from their children when families are caught entering the country illegally, according to officials who have been briefed on the plans. The forceful move is meant to discourage border crossings, but immigrant groups have denounced it as draconian and inhumane.Under current policy, families are kept intact while awaiting a decision on whether they will be deported; they are either held in special family detention centers or released with a court date. The policy under discussion would send parents to adult detention facilities, while their children would be placed in shelters designed for juveniles or with a “sponsor,” who could be a relative in the United States, though the administration may also tighten rules on sponsors.But the number of people caught has been on the rise, reaching 29,086 in November, the most since January, a trend that has worried some administration officials and is weighing on the decision to separate parents from children. That month, 7,000 “family units” were apprehended, as well as 4,000 “unaccompanied minors,” or children traveling without an adult relative.The vexing question of how to stem the flow of migrants into the country has frustrated the White House, under both Democratic and Republican control, for years. Former President Barack Obama tried to do it by fast-tracking some deportations and by starting a media campaign in Central America to warn people about the dangers of the journey to the United States. But both of those measures were largely unsuccessful, and crossings reached unprecedented levels during the Obama presidency.Previous administrations have stopped short of resorting to policies like family separation, because of concerns that it could force people into the hands of dangerous smugglers who sell themselves as a way to evade the Border Patrol, or force people with legitimate claims for asylum to remain in life-threatening situations in their home countries.Most Mexicans and Central Americans trying to enter the United States are considered economic migrants and are thus denied asylum, which requires evidence of persecution. But asylum cases often take years to litigate, and the Trump administration has made a point of discouraging people from even trying to come. When he was Homeland Security secretary, John Kelly, now the president’s chief of staff, often talked about the dangers of the trip.Tyler Q. Houlton, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, would not comment on the statuses of the policies being considered, but said that migrating illegally with children was itself cruel. “The dangerous illegal journey north is no place for young children and we need to explore all possible measures to protect them,” he said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, the prospect of breaking a sacred bond between parent and child has not been an easy decision. Mr. Kelly said early this year that he was considering the move, but after an uproar from immigrant advocates and some members of Congress, he said that families would be separated only in extreme circumstances, such as when the child was in danger because of the parent. According to one of the Homeland Security officials briefed on the proposal, even some people in the department who support strict enforcement of immigration laws see family separation as going too far.“It interferes with due process, and is really just cruel,” said Michelle Brané, director of the Migrant Rights and Justice program at the organization. “Children feel that they are being abandoned, literally being ripped out of their parents’ arms.”One of those parents, José Fuentes, presented himself to immigration officers at the border, along with his 1-year-old son Mateo, to claim asylum in November. The family had fled El Salvador with a caravan of asylum seekers because of gang violence, said Mr. Fuentes’s wife, Olivia Acevedo.After four days of being held in custody together, Mr. Fuentes was transferred to a detention facility more than 1,000 miles away, in San Diego, Calif., while their son was held in a facility for children in Laredo, Tex.For six days afterward, Ms. Acevedo said, she, her husband and their lawyers could not confirm where Mateo was. They were terrified. “Can you imagine?” she said in Spanish in a telephone interview from Mexico, where she remains with the couple’s other son, Andrée, who is 4. “It’s inhuman to take a baby from its parents.”Liz Johnson, a spokeswoman for ICE, said that the two were separated “out of concern for the child’s safety and security” because Mr. Fuentes did not have sufficient documentation to prove that he was, in fact, Mateo’s father. “ICE has requested assistance from the El Salvadoran consulate to determine the family relationship,” she said.Ms. Acevedo said she saw Mateo for the first time since their separation last week, through a five-minute video call arranged by the facility where he is being held. Mateo cried the whole time, she said, adding, “It’s a form of torture.”She said that if her husband had known that he would be separated from their son, they would not have tried to cross the border.That reaction is precisely what the creators of the policy are hoping for, according to the officials, who also said the administration was considering new policies on unaccompanied minors.Another proposal involves random spot checks of the homes where the children are taken, which would most likely result in even more immigration arrests, as those homes often contain other undocumented immigrants.See More »Go to Home Page »The two terrorist attacks six weeks apart in New York City carried out by two recent immigrants were swiftly contained and the suspects arrested. But the political consequences instantly started reverberating.The Trump administration would like to end both those programs, and the two suspects quickly became Exhibit A and Exhibit B in the case to restrict legal immigration.At Tuesday’s White House press briefing, L. Francis Cissna, the director of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said Mr. Ullah’s uncle had won a diversity visa and, after becoming a United States citizen, sponsored his nephew for permanent residency. What the administration called “extended-family chain migration” needs to be broken, Mr. Cissna said.“You can sponsor a person, like yesterday’s alleged terrorist, at the extremity of that chain, and that person can in turn sponsor people, and so on and so on, indefinitely,” he said.“It is my view, it is our administration’s view, that that is not the way that we should be running our immigration system,” Mr. Cissna said.In New York on Tuesday, both Mayor Bill de Blasio and immigration professors said “family reunification” could be a less pejorative synonym for “chain migration.”“You and probably a lot of people in your family are only here because other family members who were allowed to come after the first family members got here,” Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, said. “That’s called family reunification. But if we’re now talking about a new generation of immigrants who are, in many cases, people of color, and suddenly it’s ‘chain migration,’ and it’s a bad thing.”Philip Kasinitz, a sociology professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, added, “On balance, this system has worked out pretty well.” He continued: “The fact that most legal immigrants are related to people who are already here means that newcomers arrive with connections to people who are already established. This give them a leg up in finding jobs and getting settled.”In the parlance of immigration, the first through third family preferences go to a citizen’s spouse, children and their children. The fourth preference is for a citizen’s siblings and their children — what the immigration services director called “the most extreme, remote possible family-based connection that you can possibly have under current immigration law.”President Trump, in an October statement, said that only spouses of American citizens and their children who are minors should be allowed into the country as immigrants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While Mr. Cissna said that of the one million immigrants who get visas every year, hundreds of thousands of people come to the country through family preferences annually. However, the numbers in the last category of family visas is relatively low.Statistics show that the majority of those receiving the visas are from Asia. According to the State Department, in the 2016 fiscal year, a total of 7,196 people from Bangladesh obtained them, the third highest country of origin, behind Vietnam and India.There is an argument, said Richard Alba, a professor of sociology at the Graduate Center, that those high numbers make up for the deficit created by the quotas and exclusions of Asian immigrants during the late 19th century and early 20th century.“If it weren’t for immigration, New York City would be a far smaller, older, less economically successful city by a substantial margin,” said John Mollenkopf, the director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.New York saw a tenfold growth in Bangladeshi-born residents from 1990, when there were 8,748 of them in the city, to 2016, when there were 81,234, Prof. Mollenkopf said.The diversity visa, which lets in 50,000 immigrants annually, was a primary entry point for Bangladeshi immigrants 10 years ago, Mr. Cissna said. The program was originally created in 1990 to stimulate immigration from European countries that were outnumbered by South Asian immigrants after 1965 immigration laws opened the doors to Asians.In 2007, the peak year for Bangladeshis, 27 percent of the immigrants from that country came through the diversity program, Mr. Cissna said. But the numbers multiplied to the point that in 2012, Bangladesh was no longer eligible for the lottery, the State Department said.Uzbeks in New York and around the country have similarly benefited from the diversity visa lottery. In 2010, 70 percent of immigrants from Uzbekistan came through that path.Mr. Cissna said that would-be terrorists could exploit the program because it had low standards of admission. “Pretty much anybody on the planet who’s from a qualifying country can take advantage of this,” he said.But he said he did not have information about immigrants admitted through the diversity program who ended up being radicalized.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - Thirty-four people said to be illegal immigrants were in custody on Wednesday after federal agents raided a "drop house" in Phoenix suspected of being a part of a human smuggling operation, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials said.The raid late on Tuesday was precipitated by a tip that a "local residence contained a large group of suspected undocumented aliens," Lauren Mack, a spokeswoman for ICE, said in a statement.The information led agents with ICE Homeland Security Investigations to "dismantle a human smuggling drop house," she said."Federal agents discovered 34 undocumented aliens inside the residence. The group included  27 Guatemalan nationals, 5 Mexican nationals and 2 Honduran nationals," Mack said.All 34 were detained for violations associated with the failed human smuggling operation and processed for removal. "The investigation into the smuggling activity is ongoing," Mack said.U.S. President Donald Trump has ordered stricter immigration enforcement.(Reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Leslie Adler)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Tuesday released a report attempting to link immigrants to terrorism, presenting statistics showing that the vast majority of people convicted of international terrorism charges in the United States over the past 15 years were born in foreign countries.The report actually concluded that three out of four individuals convicted of “international” terrorism or terrorism-related charges were foreign-born.“This report shows, once again, that our current immigration system jeopardizes our national security,” said a White House fact sheet promoting the findings, which were compiled by the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security.Mr. Trump is seeking to end the visa lottery and enact new restrictions on immigrants’ ability to bring members of their extended families to the United States as part of an immigration compromise currently under discussion.But the statistics were notable as much for what they did not contain as for what they did.They included cases — a senior administration official who insisted on anonymity to detail the report could not say how many — in which foreigners were extradited to the United States to face trial. That means they did not, in fact, enter the country “through our immigration system,” as the White House fact sheet asserted.The statistics also included terrorism-related charges for attacks or other offenses carried out overseas, rather than in the United States. Additionally, they omitted domestic terrorism episodes that have accounted for a substantial number of terrorism-related deaths over the same 15-year period. During Capitol Hill testimony last year, the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray, told lawmakers that the bureau had “about 1,000” open domestic terrorism investigations and an equal number into terrorist groups such as the Islamic State. In a bulletin released last May, the F.B.I. reported that white supremacist groups were responsible for 49 homicides in 26 attacks from 2000 to 2016, “more than any other domestic extremist movement.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Tuesday’s report highlighted cases in which the offender entered through the diversity lottery or because of family ties to legal immigrants, but the White House official could not say what proportion of people in each of those categories had been convicted of terrorism.Democrats and civil liberties groups, including the Council on American-Islamic Relations, called the report flawed and politically motivated.“This misleading report relies on manufactured data to perpetuate a myth that immigrants — specifically, those from Muslim countries — are dangerous elements within our country,” Representatives Jerrold Nadler of New York and Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, the top Democrats on the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, said in a joint statement. “The administration then uses these falsehoods as reasoning and license for policies that promote the continued abuse of our rights and civil liberties.”Drawing on a Justice Department database, the report found that at least 549 individuals had been convicted of international terrorism-related charges in federal courts between Sept. 11, 2001, and Dec. 31, 2016.A homeland security analysis said 402 of those, or about 73 percent, were foreign-born. That included 254 who were not American citizens, 148 who were naturalized and became citizens and 147 who were citizens by birth.Under the March order, the report was supposed to have been released in September. On Tuesday, the senior administration official conceded that it was overdue but denied that it was being released now to influence the escalating debate over an immigration compromise.It will now be updated and issued every 180 days, he said.According to the Cato Institute, although the report focuses on “terrorism-related” offenses, Department of Justice data shows that about 40 percent of such cases have nothing to do with terrorism. Instead, they include crimes like petty theft, child pornography and immigration offenses, said David Bier, a policy analyst at Cato.Mr. Bier said his research showed that since the Sept. 11 attacks, only 35 foreigners entered the country and went on to commit terrorism offenses of any kind, including sending money abroad or leaving to join a group abroad.“The fact is that despite massive governmental resources, the D.O.J.-D.H.S. report adds little to our understanding of terrorism threats,” he said.See More »Go to Home Page »But on Wednesday, the agency reversed its position. In light of the delays, it agreed to allow those rejected because of mail delays to resubmit their renewals for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.The Department of Homeland Security’s acting director, Elaine C. Duke, told the immigration agency to allow applicants to resubmit their paperwork if they have proof that they mailed their renewal in a timely manner and that the reason it missed the Oct. 5 deadline was because of Postal Service delays. Homeland Security issued the guideline in a statement Wednesday night.Immigration advocates and elected officials were pleased with the turnabout. “We’re glad to see U.S.C.I.S. do the right thing by accepting these applications,” said Camille Mackler, the director of legal immigration policy at the New York Immigration Coalition, an immigrant advocacy group. “This news will come as a huge relief to DACA recipients who had been living with enormous anxiety for weeks now.”In New York, lawyers reported that 18 out of 34 applications had actually arrived at the Chicago location on Oct. 5, according to postal receipts, and yet they were not accepted by the immigration agency until the next day.The Department of Homeland Security acknowledged this in a statement on Wednesday:“In addition, U.S.C.I.S. had discovered certain cases in which the DACA requests were received at the designated filing location (e.g., at the applicable P.O. Box) by the filing deadline, but were rejected. U.S.C.I.S. will proactively reach out to those DACA requesters.”Officials from the immigration agency said they were still investigating the cause and location of the problems. Details about the date of the deadline to resubmit applications would be forthcoming, the agency said.The deadline led to a frenzy of 132,000 applications, according to the immigration agency. At least 4,000 renewals were rejected because they were late, according to a government official in an Oct. 18 deposition in a federal lawsuit over the cancellation of DACA.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was not clear how many of those 4,000 were rejected because of mail delivery issues, and if that number had increased since Oct. 18.But as of Wednesday, the number of DACA renewal applicants who had been rejected because of mail delays had increased to at least 115, according to lawyers and lawmakers, including cases in Texas, Wisconsin, Washington State, North Carolina and Michigan.On Thursday, senators and members of the House of Representatives who sent letters of protest to the Department of Homeland Security this week applauded the agency’s reversal.There are three Citizenship and Immigration Services intake locations, known as lockboxes, in the United States: in Phoenix, Chicago and Lewisville, Tex., a suburb of Dallas. All three were affected by mail problems, according to immigration advocates, but Chicago had the most applications delayed.The lockboxes are managed by the Treasury Department, because checks are included in the applications, but a courier service picks up the mail and delivers it to immigration agency. Most immigration applications require that they be postmarked by a certain date, rather than received by that date. But the recent DACA renewal departed from that policy.“We are pleased to see the government has changed its position,” said Emily Villano, a Yale Law School student involved in the case, but she said that “significant uncertainty” remains.Stephen M. Pezzi, a trial lawyer in the civil division of the Justice Department, said that officials hoped to resolve the issues facing “all or nearly all” of the immigrants whose applications were denied because of mail delays.DACA recipients celebrated the reversal with gratitude. In New York, a husband and wife had their applications sent on Sept. 26, along with 13 other renewals from the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, an advocacy organization.All of those renewals were accepted by the immigration agency on Oct. 1, except for one, which arrived on Oct. 6. It belonged to Simrri Juarez, 27, a television programmer. His wife, Hortencia, 27, had her application accepted weeks earlier.“Wow, I’m speechless,” Mr. Juarez said Wednesday night. “Since I’m the one that provides the most for this house, it’s a big relief. I’m going to be able to keep this job and not fear what I’m going to do.”Alan Feuer contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Prominent House Republicans stepped forward on Wednesday with a vision of immigration policy that clashed fiercely with President Trump’s recent overtures of bipartisanship and highlighted how difficult it will be for Congress and the president to reach accord in the coming weeks.“This is the only bill that’s going to unify the conference, and it’s going to get us to a majority of the conference,” said Representative Raúl R. Labrador, Republican of Idaho, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus who participated in Tuesday’s White House meeting.Mr. Trump convened Tuesday’s session to address the fate of young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally by their parents and were eligible for work permits under an Obama-era initiative called the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. Mr. Trump rescinded DACA in September and gave Congress six months to come up with a replacement.During Tuesday’s session, the president and lawmakers outlined four broad areas to be negotiated as part of a bipartisan immigration deal: shielding the young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, from deportation; limiting family-based migration, in which one relative can sponsor another; ending the diversity visa lottery system; and improving border security.But the House measure, put forth by a group that includes two committee chairmen — Judiciary’s Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia and Homeland Security’s Michael McCaul of Texas — was far more expansive.It would require employers to use an Internet-based system, known as E-Verify, to confirm that they are hiring only legal workers; crack down on so-called sanctuary cities by denying them federal grants; allow for the detention of minors who are arrested at the border with their parents; and toughen sentences for criminals who have been deported and return illegally.The measure would end the diversity visa lottery program, as Mr. Trump wants, and end family-based migration for all relatives other than spouses and minor children. It would offer three-year renewable work permits to DACA recipients, without offering them a path to citizenship.The new House Republicans’ stand underscored the uncertainty about immigration. Mr. Trump’s positions vacillate daily. And members of both parties are divided. Some Democrats are pressing for confrontation, while others seem to fear a political backlash. Some Republicans are searching for compromise against a conservative tide of anti-immigrant fervor.Lorella Praeli, the director of immigration policy and campaigns at the American Civil Liberties Union, described the House legislation as a “collection of hard-line provisions designed to sabotage, rather than advance, the possibility of a bipartisan breakthrough.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was not clear if the proposal would ever come up for a vote in the House, especially after Tuesday’s White House meeting established the parameters for a bipartisan deal. And it is all but certain to have no future in the Senate, where immigration legislation would need 60 votes for passage and therefore could not make it through the chamber with only Republican support.The judge, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco, wrote that the administration must “maintain the DACA program on a nationwide basis” while lawsuits challenging the decision to end the program move ahead.Officials at the Department of Homeland Security, which administers the program for young immigrants, said they are preparing to follow the order even as they await possible action by the Justice Department to appeal the ruling in the days ahead.Administration officials expressed confidence that the ruling would be overturned on appeal. And activists urged young immigrants not to take any actions to try to renew their DACA benefits until the legal picture is clearer.Still, both parties insisted that the legal case is a distraction to the only real, permanent solution for the young immigrants brought to the United States as children: legislation passed by Congress and signed by the president.Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said he was concerned that as a result of the ruling, “some will say, ‘Now we’ve got a lot of time.’”Democrats tried to keep up the pressure for quick action.“Let me be very clear: The ruling last night in no way diminishes the urgency of resolving the DACA issue,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. He added that delay was “a tactic employed by those who do not wish to see a deal.”Democrats are pushing for a deal on DACA by Jan. 19, when government funding is set to expire. The stakes are significant: If talks break down and lawmakers cannot, at a minimum, approve another stopgap spending bill, much of the government would shut down in less than two weeks.Complicating matters, both parties face their own internal differences over how to proceed on immigration. Just as Republicans have to contend with more hard-line members, some liberal Democrats are adamant that they will not vote for a government funding measure without a resolution on immigration. Liberal activists have pushed Democrats to withhold their votes for government funding if a DACA deal remains elusive, in order to maximize their leverage.But for Senate Democrats up for re-election this year in states that Mr. Trump won, a government shutdown could be politically perilous, especially if it is over immigration.“You know what? Let’s think positive,” said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, when asked about voting for a spending bill if DACA has not been resolved.Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said, “I’m not big on drawing lines in the sand.”Ms. McCaskill suggested the court ruling could actually help induce a deal more quickly. “I think everybody, especially the Republicans, would prefer us to decide this than the courts,” she said.As they try to find a bipartisan solution on immigration, lawmakers have also had to try to decipher what exactly would be acceptable to Mr. Trump, given that he holds the veto pen.At times, the reversals occurred in the span of a day.And on Wednesday, Mr. Trump gave seemingly contradictory stances in a matter of seconds. He affirmed that he would be open to signing “just about any immigration deal,” as a reporter put it, that lawmakers sent him. But asked if he would be willing to sign a deal that does not include funding for a border wall, he responded, “No, no, no, it’s got to include the wall.”Michael D. Shear and Linda Qiu contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — As the nation faced another crisis, polls clearly reflected what a significant majority of the public thought should be done. A bipartisan move to draft a legislative response finally gained steam after years of stasis. A stunning breakthrough looked to be at hand.The issue was put to the test in a series of votes on the Senate floor. Backers of the bipartisan compromise showed they could get tantalizingly close to the magic threshold of 60 votes, but still came up short at 54 and the entire effort collapsed in failure.It is also a predictable result if significant gun control legislation emerges in Congress in the aftermath of the school massacre in Parkland, Fla. That prospect underscores the parallels between the two politically divisive issues and the difficulties of enacting meaningful legislation even when a majority in Congress and the public agree. The inability to push legislation over the finish line has lawmakers fed up while feeding public discontent with Washington.“I think people in this country today are very frustrated with gridlock on issues that they believe should be resolvable,” said Senator Susan Collins, a leading Republican centrist from Maine. “We are not talking about dealing with North Korea, which is a really tough issue. We are talking about issues that have reasonable, readily available solutions.”So how is it that proposals with such strong support and seeming momentum can be so quickly derailed?“Great question,” said Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware and one of those deeply involved in the bipartisan immigration talks. “It is one that has been haunting me this week.”The problem is that while those views might represent a majority of the nation and even a bipartisan majority of the House and Senate, they seem to be a minority sentiment among the Republicans who control Congress as well as the White House. Given that reality, backers of bipartisan compromise, energized by public support on those issues, can press their case and get to the edge of success but still not prevail.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The views of the Republicans in power are in the minority when it comes to issues like immigration and guns,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group. “Those of us trying to figure out how to ride the wave of public opinion are up against an intense minority that is the tail wagging the G.O.P. dog.”Top congressional Republicans and President Trump say they are simply representing their constituents who see gun control as a threat to deeply personal Second Amendment rights and unenforced immigration laws as a threat to American jobs and security. And conservative Republican voters, at least in the past, have been more driven on these issues than Democrats or moderate Republicans.But while Republican leaders have been able to successfully thwart the bipartisan push behind both gun safety and immigration legislation, loud public demands for action have meant they could not ignore them altogether.“It was all or nothing and they got nothing,” said Mr. Sharry, who noted Mr. Trump sacrificed what had previously been his overriding immigration priority, the wall.As lawmakers start to discuss among themselves about possible approaches to gun safety after the Florida shooting, they are fearful of the same dynamic emerging. They worry that a majority of Republicans will entertain votes on consensus gun safety measures only in exchange for support for measures that other lawmakers and gun safety advocates find unacceptable.Lawmakers and congressional officials say suggestions are already percolating that any legislation tightening background checks would be tied to a House-passed proposal that would require state-issued permits to carry concealed weapons to be transferable across state lines, forcing all states to recognize a permit issued in one jurisdiction. Currently, states have widely varying standards for issuing such permits and the push to grant “reciprocity” would meet stiff Democratic resistance in the Senate, diminishing chances for any bipartisan agreement.Gun control supporters were somewhat heartened by Mr. Trump’s comments on Wednesday at the White House that gun control efforts would this time go beyond simple “talk,” but they are also realistic, particularly with crucial midterm elections looming and both parties grappling for the political upper hand.“I find myself hoping that this time it is real and that it isn’t Lucy and the football,” Mr. Coons said. “I have to keep believing in the possibility of a functional Senate, but on gun violence I am not optimistic. “In light of the recent shared experience with both gun safety and immigration proposals, he probably shouldn’t be.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorAs horrifying as this remark was, his groundbreaking transparency provides an opportunity. Racism has long fueled United States immigration exclusions and restrictions, but these days it’s rare to hear rhetoric that openly reflects this reality, providing us a chance to delve into its roots and implications.We’ve grown accustomed to the dog-whistling of anti-immigrant racism. Where blood, purity and civilization were once its everyday vocabulary, anti-racist and immigrant rights activism have, at least until recently, succeeded in forcing such talk underground. Our era’s seemingly race-neutral languages of security, legality, culture, productivity and assimilation are often strongly inflected with racial meanings, but they’re subtler and deniable, attracting far less opposition than, say, likening countries to outhouses.Public utterances like Mr. Trump’s have and should inspire outrage, but we need to go deeper, challenging the racist views — both flagrant and soft-pedaled — that have long shaped America’s immigration policy. And we need to ask hard questions about the ways racism has decisively, durably shaped the immigration debate in ways that usually go unnoticed.The truth is, many of the United States’ early policies toward immigrants were conceived in recognizably Trumpian terms, in substance if not in tenor. The president’s headline-making sentiment that people from countries like Norway (read: white people) were preferable would have been recognizable to the founders.The nation’s first naturalization law, from 1790, closed off United States citizenship to all but “free white persons of good character.” People of African descent were among the first migrants singled out for surveillance and exclusion, as they sought entry to the country or moved between states. State repression of black migrants transformed them into America’s first “illegal immigrants,” laying the groundwork for durable associations between law, morality and the need to keep people of color, quite literally, in their “place.”The racialization of United States immigration law took off in the decades following the Civil War. Beginning with the Chinese, migrants from Asia were the early targets; beginning in 1917, an “Asiatic Barred Zone” (with latitude and longitude markers laid out clearly in the legislative code) kept out migrants from an imaginary mega-region that stretched from contemporary Turkey to Papua New Guinea.In the aftermath of World War I, a new “national origins” quota system sought to turn back the American demographic clock, with European immigrants admitted in proportion to the presence of their “nationality” in the American population based on earlier censuses. It was “Make America Great Again” for a eugenic age. Hitler was a fan. America appeared to be “a young, racially select people,” he wrote admiringly in 1928, by “making an immigrant’s ability to set foot on American soil dependent on specific racial requirements,” among other factors.The United States’ unapologetically racist immigration codes — with Asian exclusion and “national origins” at their core — survived the Great Depression, World War II, and the beginnings of the Cold War and decolonization; the presumption that the United States was or should be a white fortress in a mostly colored world was backstopped by science, religion, scholarship and popular culture. American law did not allow Asians to obtain citizenship until 1952.New caps on Western Hemisphere migration — flying in the face of United States demand for workers, an entrenched labor migration industry and poverty and repression in Latin America that forced thousands into exile — outlawed decades-old migration flows. In the 1990s new nativist movements directed against Latin Americans arose, as well as efforts to eliminate migrants’ rights to basic services and the expansion of immigrant incarceration and mass deportation. In the aftermath of Sept. 11, the principle that immigrants from Muslim-majority countries required special scrutiny and restriction was central to the remaking of immigration policy in the name of national security.The prevailing questions we’re conditioned to ask about immigrants have all been deeply shaped by histories of racial restriction. Can “we” assimilate and civilize “them”? Will “they” — despite their negative features and the risks they pose — make “us” wealthier and more powerful? Will “they” sap “our” resources?This past week, liberals, progressives and others protesting Mr. Trump’s comments about Haiti, El Salvador, and the countries of Africa understandably rushed to defend them as beautiful, dignified places unworthy of his vulgar derision. But in this defensive posture of response, which inadvertently legitimates the questions it answers, one can also feel the overwhelming presence of racist suspicion and hostility roaring out of the past into our time.We will not, ultimately, succeed in deposing Mr. Trump’s hateful, racist approach toward immigrants unless we refuse not only his nastiest word choices, but also the underlying questions he and others insist we ask.We can choose to ask different questions: To what extent are the countries of the global north implicated in forces that prevent people in the global south from surviving and thriving where they are? In what ways do restrictive immigration policies heighten the exploitation of workers? How does the fear of deportation make migrant workers easier to discipline, hurt and rob? In what ways does mass migration from the poorer parts of the earth to centers of wealth and power reflect the larger problem of global inequality?Elites in the United States and elsewhere — long before Donald Trump’s presidency — have long known they could sustain their power by capitalizing on, deepening and, where necessary, inventing divisions between self and other, friend and enemy. This political strategy, with troubling successes to its name, has been updated and rescaled for our globalized age, in which the fault lines are those of bordered nationality: There will be no protection offered from polluters or health insurance companies, but the threat of Muslims and Mexicans will be met.To the white nationalists’ war cry against migrants, “You will not replace us,” we can and should reply, as have many before, “You will not divide us.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSome lawmakers specifically criticized the president, while others countered the sentiment of his remarks.The remaining Republican senators and key House members have made no known public statements responding to the comments. The New York Times has reached out to each of their offices.WEST FRANKFORT, Ill. — The first time I came to this small Southern Illinois city, in February, the person I was here to write about — Juan Carlos Hernandez Pacheco — was nowhere to be found. He was locked up in a Missouri detention facility.Mr. Hernandez had been arrested for being undocumented, amid a national conversation over President Trump’s promises to crack down on illegal immigration.In the early weeks of the Trump administration, we met a man who got caught up in the president’s crackdown on immigrants living in the U.S. illegally. What has happened to him since?In letters to the immigration court that could decide whether he will be deported, influential residents raved about Mr. Hernandez, someone most people in this mostly white coal-mining crossroads had not realized had been living here without papers for about 20 years.West Frankfort’s mayor, Tom Jordan, called him a “great asset” to the city who “doesn’t ask for anything in return.” The fire chief described him as “a man of great character.” The recommendation that may have stuck with me most came from a resident who confided that he really did not like having many people in his life at all but Mr. Hernandez was the rare exception, someone who was welcome at his home for dinner.This month, I returned to West Frankfort. I wanted to know what community leaders like Mayor Jordan were thinking now. And I wanted to meet Mr. Hernandez after hearing all those stories — about how he always asked after peoples’ family members by their names at the Mexican restaurant he managed; how he donated scholarships to the local high school; how he hosted fund-raisers to support local police officers.He was grateful and humbled when he emerged from several weeks in detention to find out about the avalanche of support. But he was also a little uncomfortable knowing that people had been ticking off stories about acts of charity that he had never meant to be public.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He was stunned, he recalled, when he turned on his phone the day he was released from the detention facility. “It was like, ‘Ding! Ding! Ding! Ding!’”Emails flooded in from around the world. Supporters wrote to say that Mr. Hernandez’s acts of civic responsibility over two decades should matter more than how he got here from Mexico. Plenty of critics wrote, too: Some said laws were laws and noted that Mr. Hernandez also had two drunken-driving convictions from 2007; some fellow Latinos viewed him as betraying or rejecting Mexico.But in West Frankfort, feelings about Mr. Hernandez seem not to have changed much, and life has moved on.People seemed more worried about the future of coal, on which the area has depended; about hopes for some new major employer; about whether young people, dreaming of decent jobs, will stay put; about the strain that state fiscal woes have placed on this part of Illinois; and about the flood of drugs that the local sheriff, Don Jones, said had some role in the lives of nearly all 114 inmates in his jail.“I love the coal industry,” said Jim Muir, the county’s circuit court clerk, who spent almost two decades working at a coal mine, starting when he turned 18. “But I don’t think it will ever be back to where it was.”Mayor Jordan said West Frankfort was “built on coal,” and recognized people in the audience who had worked in the mines or were children of those who had. The region’s challenge, most believe, is finding a thriving economic path forward.“We don’t really get involved in a lot of immigration issues in West Frankfort,” Mr. Jordan said.For Juan Carlos Hernandez Pacheco, though, those questions are far from answered. His next court date has been set for April 19, 2021.It is a date he says he thinks about endlessly. He swerves from miserable (if he is deported, his family will remain here) to hopeful (maybe a judge will allow him to stay). On the one hand, he’s counting down to what he sees as the equivalent of an execution date; on the other, he feels he has been granted precious time.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Congressional leaders struggled on Friday to find a path forward on legislation to protect hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers after the Senate’s efforts collapsed into a partisan morass. Immigrant rights advocates, losing faith in the legislative process, nervously turned their attention to the courts.On Capitol Hill, both Democrats and Republicans said the future of the Dreamers — young undocumented immigrants who were brought here as children — may not be settled anytime soon. With Congress gone for a weeklong recess, there is no immediate opportunity for lawmakers to regroup after Thursday’s defeat of three Senate bills, including one backed by President Trump.In the Senate, some lawmakers — including Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican — have raised the possibility of pairing a simple provision protecting the Dreamers from deportation with funding for the president’s proposed wall at the southern border with Mexico, and slipping that package into a large spending bill that must pass in late March.“The clock is still ticking,” Mr. Cornyn said. “We kind of had test votes here. We kind of know what the tolerance is for different ideas.”The uncertain outlook in Congress is matched by uncertainty in the courts. Two federal courts have blocked the Trump administration from ending DACA, but the Trump administration is seeking to have those court rulings overturned. On Friday, the Supreme Court convened a closed-door conference to consider whether to bypass appellate courts and take up the issue immediately.If that happens, legal experts say, the administration will almost certainly prevail.“Let’s not kid ourselves, it’s looking increasingly grim,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group.Cannot believe how BADLY DACA recipients have been treated by the Democrats...totally abandoned! Republicans are still working hard.Immigration has long been one of the most intractable issues in Washington. The Senate Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had set aside this week for what was supposed to have been a freewheeling debate that would allow senators to build a bipartisan immigration bill from scratch.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We still have time,” Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia and a chairman of the coalition. “I think that the people are totally committed to it are going to want to get back together.”But even if the group does get back together, it will almost certainly run into trouble coming up with an immigration plan that will meet Mr. Trump’s conditions. The president wants to severely limit family-based migration and cancel the diversity visa lottery, which aims to bring in immigrants from underrepresented countries.Republicans and Democrats agree that there is now a very slim chance that legislation will pass offering citizenship to the Dreamers. With the Senate debate over, the White House is backing the House measure, which proposes a more far-reaching rewrite of immigration laws than even the president considered.The House bill would require employers to use an Internet-based system, known as E-Verify, to confirm that they are hiring only legal workers; crack down on so-called sanctuary cities by denying them federal grants; allow for the detention of minors who are arrested at the border with their parents; and toughen sentences for criminals who return illegally after being deported.The measure would end the diversity visa lottery program, as Mr. Trump wants, and end family-based migration for all relatives other than spouses and minor children. It would offer three-year renewable work permits to DACA recipients, without offering them a path to citizenship.In the Senate, Mr. Flake is trying to gather support for a measure that would simply extend DACA by three years, without offering a path to citizenship, in exchange for three years of border-wall funding. Such a bill could be attached to the spending measure that must pass by March 23, when funding for the government runs out. Democrats might not agree to wall funding without a path to citizenship for the Dreamers. And even Mr. Flake did not sound enthusiastic about that prospect.“This is a failure of Congress to act responsibly here,” he said.The negotiations over the spending bill, which would keep the government open until the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year, will play out in the next few weeks. But a continued impasse over immigration could again raise the threat of yet another government shutdown, on top of the two brief closures that have already occurred this year.Once again, Democratic votes will be needed to pass the spending bill, since 60 votes are required in the Senate, where Republicans hold only 51 seats, and numerous fiscally conservative Republicans are very likely to vote against it in the House.Lawmakers were already on a collision course over immigration as part of the negotiations of a long-term spending bill. Both the House and Senate plans for funding the Department of Homeland Security for the current fiscal year would provide $1.6 billion for physical barriers along the southern border with Mexico.The wall funding is a probable flash point between the two parties, as Democrats are loath to grant Mr. Trump his wish of building it.If Congress were to approve a spending bill without wall funding, Mr. Trump could veto it. The president has already shown an appetite for such a confrontation, saying this month that he would “love to see a shutdown” if his demands on immigration are not met.See More »Go to Home Page »More than 800,000 Liberians were displaced by the war and fled the country. Some sought refuge in the United States.The program, known as Deferred Enforced Departure, has been renewed for Liberians since, giving the immigrants the ability to remain in the United States without fear of deportation. But in the memo, Mr. Trump cited the improved conditions in Liberia as evidence that the program was no longer needed.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Liberia is no longer experiencing armed conflict and has made significant progress in restoring stability and democratic governance,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Liberia has also concluded reconstruction from prior conflicts, which has contributed significantly to an environment that is able to handle adequately the return of its nationals.”“Many of these people have been in our state for decades, and they are an important part of our communities, where they serve as business owners, teachers and health care workers,” the lawmakers wrote, asking for an extension of the program.On Tuesday, Emira Woods, a Liberian-American advocate for immigrants, described the president’s decision as a mixed bag. She noted the year that Liberians have before facing deportation, but said ending the program would force them to abandon lives in the United States. “Many of these Liberians had children in the United States,” she said.The Deferred Enforced Departure program for Liberians was scheduled to expire Saturday. Though he declined to renew the program, Mr. Trump ordered what he called an “orderly transition” so that Liberians living in the United States could get their affairs in order before returning to Liberia. That period will extend for 12 months, Mr. Trump wrote.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — A broad bipartisan group of senators reached agreement Wednesday on a narrow rewrite of the nation’s immigration laws that would bolster border security and resolve the fate of the so-called Dreamers, even as President Trump suggested he would veto any plan that does not adhere to his harder-line approach.Their compromise legislation sets up a clash pitting the political center of the Senate against Mr. Trump and the Republican congressional leadership.Senators in both parties have been racing against a self-imposed end-of-the-week deadline to write legislation that could win wide support by increasing border security while at the same time offering a path to citizenship for young immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.Members of the bipartisan group, which calls itself the Common Sense Coalition, said their deal does just that. They were working Wednesday evening to determine whether their bill could garner the 60 votes necessary to break a filibuster.“The president’s going to have a vote on his concept. I don’t think it will get 60 votes,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a member of the group, adding: “The bottom line then is: What do you do next? You can do what we’ve done for the last 35 years — blame each other. Or you can actually start fixing the broken immigration system. If you came out of this with strong border security — the president getting his wall and the Dream Act population being taken care of — most Americans would applaud.”Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.The bipartisan measure, sponsored by seven Democrats, eight Republicans and one independent, would appropriate $25 billion for border security, including construction of the president’s proposed wall at the Mexican border, over a 10-year period — not immediately, as Mr. Trump demands.It would also offer an eventual path to citizenship, over 10 to 12 years, for 1.8 million of the young undocumented immigrants, but would preclude them from sponsoring their parents to become citizens. It would make no changes to the diversity visa lottery system, which Mr. Trump wants to end.“I am asking all senators, in both parties, to support the Grassley bill and to oppose any legislation that fails to fulfill these four pillars,” Mr. Trump said in the statement, referring to the chief sponsor of the measure, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.Mr. Grassley said that in offering the young immigrants, known as Dreamers, a chance to become citizens, Mr. Trump had been “much more compassionate on a compromise than anybody thought.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Limiting family-based immigration — which Democrats call “family reunification” — and ending the diversity visa lottery are anathema to Democrats. But it was unclear how many Democrats would sign on to the compromise as an alternative.Senate Democrats met in a closed-door session to talk about the coalition’s plan, and lawmakers emerged saying that some of their colleagues, who favor improvements in border security but have been deeply opposed to building a wall, had reservations.“I know that people want to get some certainty for these kids,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota. She said she would support the Common Sense measure, but added, “We’re being asked to make some tough compromises.”“He’s not helpful at all,’’ said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate. “All he does is create a crisis and can’t help us solve it.”In the statement, Mr. Trump said that the “overwhelming majority of American voters support a plan that fulfills the framework’s four pillars, which move us towards the safe, modern and lawful immigration system our people deserve.”He added that he would oppose a short-term “Band-Aid” approach to immigration that some lawmakers have been discussing, which would protect Dreamers for a few years in exchange for a small increase in border security spending — essentially kicking the issue down the road.“The American people know what’s going on,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor. “They know this president not only created the problem, but seems to be against every solution that might pass because it isn’t 100 percent of what he wants. If, at the end of the week, we are unable to find a bill that can pass — and I sincerely hope that’s not the case due to the good efforts of so many people on both sides of the aisle — the responsibility will fall entirely on the president’s shoulders and those in this body who went along with him.”Mr. Trump’s statement was a victory for conservatives in his administration, including Stephen Miller, his top domestic policy adviser, who have been pushing the president to demand an overhaul of the nation’s immigration rules in exchange for his support of a permanent solution for the Dreamers.Several senior White House advisers told reporters on Wednesday that Mr. Trump would not relent in backing his hard-line immigration principles and said Dreamers should blame Democrats if legislation did not pass.One senior adviser, who requested anonymity to discuss legislative strategy, said the president had made “dramatic concessions” by agreeing to a path to citizenship for 1.8 million young immigrants. Another made it clear that Mr. Trump would not compromise any further.That bipartisan bill would call for more border security, but would not directly finance construction of a border wall that Mr. Trump has promised. The bill would offer a way for Dreamers to become legal; the homeland security statement described it as a “mass legalization” measure.“The McCain-Coons proposal would increase illegal immigration, surge chain migration, continue catch-and-release and give a pathway to citizenship to convicted alien felons,” the statement said.The top Republicans in both the House and Senate praised the statements from the administration on Wednesday, describing them as a lift for the approach that many of their more conservative members support.“The president has made clear what principles must be addressed if we are going to make a law instead of merely making political points,” Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Wednesday morning.Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin echoed that sentiment, saying that “the president did a very good job of putting a very sincere offer on the table. And that sincere offer that he put on the table should be the framework through which we come together to find a solution.”Asked about Mr. Trump’s veto threat, Mr. Graham said: “Well, then, we won’t go very far. Then you’ll have three presidents who failed. You’ll have Obama, Bush and Trump.”Eileen Sullivan and Ron Nixon contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — An immigration debate on Tuesday in the Senate that promised to be freewheeling and democratic got off instead to a rocky start, with Democrats and Republicans in a standoff over how the debate should proceed.But even as the floor debate faltered, a bipartisan group of senators was working behind the scenes to draft an immigration proposal that could garner the 60 votes necessary to overcome a filibuster.“Negotiations on DACA have begun,” the president wrote. “Republicans want to make a deal and Democrats say they want to make a deal. Wouldn’t it be great if we could finally, after so many years, solve the DACA puzzle. This will be our last chance, there will never be another opportunity! March 5.”But in the Capitol, Mr. McConnell and his Democratic counterpart, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, were unable to come to terms on an agreement that would get the debate underway in earnest.Mr. McConnell sought to open with a vote on legislation to punish so-called sanctuary cities, which refuse to cooperate with federal immigration officials. But Mr. Schumer objected, on the grounds that such a measure is unrelated to DACA. Without the Democratic leader’s consent, debate cannot begin until midnight Tuesday, or very early Wednesday morning. Republicans were left fuming in frustration.“This is the debate they said they wanted,” Mr. McConnell, sounding irked, told reporters Tuesday. “I said we’d have an open and fair process. We’re trying to do that, and the sooner we get started, the better because we need to wrap up this week.”Whether senators can stick to that schedule remains an open question. The chamber is scheduled to be in recess next week, but some lawmakers are urging that the immigration debate be continued after the recess if no resolution is reached by Friday.“The preference obviously is to finish,” said Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona. “You never want to have a break right in the middle of a debate. That’s not optimal. But it’s better than letting it die.”Immigration is one of the most difficult and contentious issues to come before Congress. The last time the Senate debated immigration, in 2013, the matter was on the floor for weeks. It culminated in Senate passage of a comprehensive immigration overhaul with 68 votes, but the measure never got a vote in the House.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This time, Mr. Trump has insisted that any bill address what the White House is calling “four pillars”: protecting the DACA recipients; beefing up border security, including funding for the president’s proposed border wall; ending or severely limiting family-based migration; and doing away with the diversity visa lottery, which is aimed at encouraging immigration from underrepresented nations.Mr. McConnell has embraced a Republican plan that would meet the president’s conditions. But the proposal, drafted by a group of Republicans led by Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, does not appear to have garnered the backing of 60 senators.Other proposals are also floating around the Capitol, including a “skinny bill” or “two-pillar bill” that would pair an extension of the DACA program with money for border security. Some Democrats say that is the path most likely to produce a measure that 60 senators can support.“I’m very optimistic,” said Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a member of the bipartisan group, called the Common Sense Coalition, that has been negotiating behind the scenes. “I think at the end of the day, what it’s going to be is a simple solution. You’re going to take care of the DACA kids and their parents in exchange for doing the wall.”But Mr. Trump has said he would not sign such a bill, and some senators say they consider the “skinny” approach a waste of time.“They think that the best we can do is a baby step,” Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, said, referring to those who are advocating a narrower bill. “And I don’t agree with that. I want to solve this problem. I think this is a case where moderation is for monks. Let’s go solve the problem.”Thomas Kaplan and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — For 55 minutes, with cameras rolling, President Trump engaged in a vigorous discussion of immigration with congressional leaders of both parties in a setting usually reserved for bland talking points and meaningless photo opportunities.In effect, the president and his visitors threw away the blah-blah scripts and negotiated possible legislation in front of the nation. “I hope we’ve given you enough material,” a pleased Mr. Trump joked with reporters as he finally ushered them out of the Cabinet Room in the White House.The bar, of course, was historically low given that Democrats and even some Republicans have been describing him as so unstable that he should be removed from office. For his advisers, the meeting was a relief, a chance to reset the narrative and make Mr. Trump look more like a traditional president. And his critics, grading on a curve, called it a welcome change, a moment of constructive engagement that they hoped would lead to more.Yet it was a measure of Mr. Trump’s political weakness that anyone seemed surprised.He did not lapse into incoherence but neither did he demonstrate mastery of policy details after a year in office. At one point, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California seemed to lead him into agreeing to an immigration deal on terms that she and fellow Democrats have sought, only to have an alarmed Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, jump in to steer him back toward his own policy.Indeed, Mr. Trump made clear once again that the details of governance do not really matter to him as much as success, telling congressional leaders that he would approve whatever they send him. “I will be signing it,” he said. “I’m not going to say, ‘Oh, gee, I want this or I want that.’ I’ll be signing it.”But the news media more typically is invited into the room for only the first few minutes of such a meeting to record the traditional platitudes before being kicked out. After Tuesday’s meeting, lawmakers said that they were surprised Mr. Trump allowed cameras to stay and some noted wryly that they had become props in his latest reality television show.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who was a harsh critic when he faced Mr. Trump in the Republican primaries in 2016 but has lately become one of his chief allies, called Tuesday’s session “the most fascinating meeting I’ve been involved with in 20-plus years in politics.”Democrats used other adjectives. “It’s fairly bizarre that the president has to show that he’s actually balanced and sane,” Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, said in an interview afterward.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Did he succeed in doing that? “More than some other kinds of other behaviors that he’s engaged in,” she said cautiously.“It was more constructive than I believed it was going to be,” added Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado. “I went into it thinking that it was just an opportunity to have a photo op and maybe allow him to demonstrate that he was not the person he was accused of being over the weekend. But I think it was more constructive than that.”Recalling that, Democrats said they were curbing their expectations. But they held out hope that a coming spending deadline might force action. “I see all of the potential stars aligned,” said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey. “Doesn’t mean that it will happen. But I see the stars aligned for the possibility of something happening.”He added that he could agree to concessions on bolstering border security and ending the diversity lottery visa program, two of Mr. Trump’s priorities, if the president likewise made compromises. “We’re willing to give,” Mr. Menendez said. “Some of these things for me are still hard, but I’m willing to do that if we achieve a real goal here and if Republicans are reasonable about what they’re seeking.”As in the past, however, Mr. Trump got immediate pushback on Tuesday from conservative allies who quickly accused him of betraying the very promises he won the presidency on. In exchange for border security, he said he would sign legislation to replace the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an Obama-era program that protected younger immigrants who were brought into the country illegally as children but that Mr. Trump scrapped, citing legal grounds.Mr. Trump said he was prepared for the pressure if the two sides moved beyond a quick initial deal and tackled a broader comprehensive immigration bill down the road.“I’ll take the heat, I don’t care. I don’t care,” he told lawmakers. “I’ll take all the heat you want to give me, and I’ll take the heat off both the Democrats and the Republicans. My whole life has been heat. I like heat, in a certain way.”The next weeks will test that because the temperature is sure to keep going up.An earlier version of this article misstated the room of the White House in which President Trump discussed immigration with congressional leaders. It was the Cabinet Room, not the Roosevelt Room.See More »Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES — Federal agents arrested 498 people from 42 countries in a four-day nationwide operation targeting cities that United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement said give sanctuary to undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes.“Sanctuary jurisdictions that do not honor detainers or allow us access to jails and prisons are shielding criminal aliens from immigration enforcement and creating a magnet for illegal immigration,” Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of ICE, said in a statement. “As a result, ICE is forced to dedicate more resources to conduct at-large arrests in these communities.”The most arrests were made in Philadelphia (107) and Los Angeles (101). There were also many arrests in Northern California; Boston; Denver; and Portland, Ore.Typically, in such sweeps, teams of agents fan out in the early hours of the day to arrest people before they leave for work, after monitoring their movements in advance.Among those arrested in Los Angeles, the agency said, was a Mexican gang member who entered the United States illegally. When agents encountered him, he rammed his car into multiple law enforcement vehicles in an effort to evade arrest. After he was arrested, agents found a loaded handgun in his pocket.“Laws created under the guise to protect immigrants who are here to better their lives are being used by criminal elements to protect themselves,” said Jorge Field, assistant field office director for ICE in Los Angeles, adding that “having to make these arrests in public puts more people in danger.”All told, agents arrested 167 undocumented immigrants in seven counties of Southern California, he said.Honoring a campaign pledge, President Trump has made cracking down on illegal immigration a top priority. His attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been a key proponent of punishing localities that refuse to cooperate with immigration authorities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Sessions recently denounced a bill passed this month by the California Legislature to limit communication between federal immigration agents and state and local law enforcement, among other provisions.What constitutes a sanctuary city is loosely defined, but many cities have said that cooperating with ICE undermines public safety because doing so erodes trust between police and immigrant communities.In response to the latest ICE roundup, a spokesman for Mr. Garcetti said the mayor “believes that the administration should focus its actions on people who have committed serious crimes or pose a threat to our national security.”In Denver, which had the third-highest number of arrests, the sheriff’s department notifies ICE when it is about to release an immigrant whom the agency has requested be held in detention. However, it does not hold inmates beyond a scheduled release date if ICE does not get them. It also does not allow agents to interview inmates without a judicial warrant.Immigration arrests jumped nearly 40 percent in the first three months of the Trump administration. ICE arrested 41,318 immigrants, a rate of more than 400 each day, compared with 30,028 over roughly the same period in 2016.Among those taken into custody in this week’s operation, 317 had criminal convictions, including 86 for driving under the influence, the most of any listed offense. Other crimes included assault, drug trafficking and domestic violence, as well as trespassing, invasion of privacy and “Peeping Tom.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — In terms of rip-roaring debates, it certainly didn’t rival Calhoun versus Webster. It definitely was not in the pantheon with Lincoln and Douglas. In fact, it really didn’t even measure up to Biden meets Palin.The promised freewheeling, take-on-all-comers Senate showdown over immigration policy never really materialized before it all collapsed Thursday with the defeat of four proposals, including President Trump’s, which suffered the worst loss of them all. After raising expectations of an elevated, old-school clash of ideas, the Senate delivered a dud, a major disappointment to those hoping to see a revived Senate confront the tough, politically charged issues by hashing them out on the floor.Over four days of what was supposed to be a rare, open-ended fight, the Senate chamber was often empty, save the lone Republican forced to preside over the inactivity. In the end, the showdown came down to a series of votes on four doomed proposals rather than a daily competition between lawmakers offering a series of defining amendments as in the past. In the run-up to the final decision, the number of dramatic votes on such amendments reached exactly zero.“I think it’s safe to say this has been a disappointing week,” Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said in the aftermath of the legislative failure.For much of the week, the marble hallways were quiet. The C-Span screen noted frequently that there were “no votes scheduled.” Congressional reporters who had heard legends of gripping floor debates from the turn of the century (the 20th, that is) were bemoaning the missed opportunity. The real work — what there was of it — went on behind closed doors as varying groups of lawmakers tried to put together something that could attract the required 60 votes.Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican, said the necessary pieces were in place for a full-throated debate except for a Democratic willingness to get started under a framework set by Republicans.“We’ve got the hall,” he said Wednesday of the chamber. “We’ve got the people,” he said of his colleagues. “We just can’t get them to debate,” he said of the Democrats. “I’m just sort of at a loss.”Democrats said many Republicans were most interested in making sure nothing at all passed the Senate. They said Mr. McConnell and others were determined to lure them into votes on issues beyond efforts to protect 700,000 undocumented immigrants brought into the United States as children — the “Dreamers” who are the top priority for Democrats.Mr. McConnell’s opening bid was to call a vote on a Republican plan to punish so-called sanctuary cities, jurisdictions where local agencies do not cooperate with federal immigration officials in rounding up undocumented immigrants. That issue could be a political problem for those Democrats up for re-election in conservative states.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, initially blocked that effort, saying Mr. McConnell was starting off on the wrong foot.“The majority leader’s desire to vote on an unrelated, partisan immigration bill — legislation that is not only silent on Dreamers, but is silent on border security as well — is not a productive way to begin debate,” Mr. Schumer said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Schumer, instead, wanted to begin with a vote on President Trump’s conservative immigration plan to show that it lacked bipartisan support in an outcome meant to embarrass the president and build momentum for an alternative. Republicans were not interested in the Democratic maneuver.The standoff left the Senate right where it has been for years — frozen by a deep reluctance on the part of leaders of both parties to force vulnerable incumbents to take politically challenging votes. That thinking has dried up floor debate and put tight restrictions on the movement of legislation, making it a central cause of congressional gridlock.In 2014, Republicans could not get enough of pointing out that Senator Mark Begich, a first-term Democrat from Alaska, never had a single amendment he wrote voted on by the Senate, a fact they said highlighted a lack of influence. He lost his re-election bid.The refusal to battle it out over amendments has frustrated lawmakers in both parties and left some strategists scratching their heads because they see little evidence that such votes are all that damaging in an environment where charges and countercharges fly freely.“What I came here to do is vote,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut. “And I am chagrined that we are in a time when both sides seem in trepidation of voting because our political process has become so polarized.”But while Mr. McConnell might have promised the debate, he did not promise to make it easy for Democrats. As could have readily been predicted, he backed the most conservative option presented on behalf of the president while trying to ensnare Democrats in tough votes to help preserve his majority in November’s elections.“My Democratic colleagues have spent months demanding the Senate take up this issue,” Mr. McConnell said Wednesday. “They even shut down the government — unnecessarily, I might add — in order to secure this very week of debate. But now that the time has come to make law instead of just making points, they’re stalling.”Nearly all Democrats and eight Republicans ultimately got behind a compromise plan that would protect Dreamers but prevent parents who brought them into the country from gaining citizenship while diverting $25 billion to border security. It fell six votes short after the White House fought it tooth and nail, leaving the fate of the Dreamers as uncertain as the Senate’s ability to get things done.What was certain was that the debate many anticipated never occurred in a Senate that hosted storied fights between John C. Calhoun and Daniel Webster over slavery. Stephen A. Douglas and Abraham Lincoln later clashed in a series of remarkable showdowns as they sought the Senate seat from Illinois in 1858, setting Mr. Lincoln up for his presidential election despite his Senate loss.And in October 2008, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware and Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska squared off for the right to preside over the Senate as vice president of the United States. “Can I call you Joe?” Ms. Palin asked in a more memorable moment.The confrontation this week loomed as a test of whether the Senate could regain its debate footing and find answers on an issue all agree desperately needs resolution. The institution failed.See More »Go to Home Page »The changes have had far-reaching consequences, both for the immigrants who have sought to make a new home in this country and for America’s image in the world.WASHINGTON — Late to his own meeting and waving a sheet of numbers, President Trump stormed into the Oval Office one day in June, plainly enraged.But so many foreigners had flooded into the country since January, he vented to his national security team, that it was making a mockery of his pledge. Friends were calling to say he looked like a fool, Mr. Trump said.According to six officials who attended or were briefed about the meeting, Mr. Trump then began reading aloud from the document, which his domestic policy adviser, Stephen Miller, had given him just before the meeting. The document listed how many immigrants had received visas to enter the United States in 2017.More than 2,500 were from Afghanistan, a terrorist haven, the president complained.Haiti had sent 15,000 people. They “all have AIDS,” he grumbled, according to one person who attended the meeting and another person who was briefed about it by a different person who was there.Forty thousand had come from Nigeria, Mr. Trump added. Once they had seen the United States, they would never “go back to their huts” in Africa, recalled the two officials, who asked for anonymity to discuss a sensitive conversation in the Oval Office.As the meeting continued, John F. Kelly, then the secretary of homeland security, and Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, tried to interject, explaining that many were short-term travelers making one-time visits. But as the president continued, Mr. Kelly and Mr. Miller turned their ire on Mr. Tillerson, blaming him for the influx of foreigners and prompting the secretary of state to throw up his arms in frustration. If he was so bad at his job, maybe he should stop issuing visas altogether, Mr. Tillerson fired back.Tempers flared and Mr. Kelly asked that the room be cleared of staff members. But even after the door to the Oval Office was closed, aides could still hear the president berating his most senior advisers.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, denied on Saturday morning that Mr. Trump had made derogatory statements about immigrants during the meeting.“General Kelly, General McMaster, Secretary Tillerson, Secretary Nielsen and all other senior staff actually in the meeting deny these outrageous claims,” she said, referring to the current White House chief of staff, the national security adviser and the secretaries of state and homeland security. “It’s both sad and telling The New York Times would print the lies of their anonymous ‘sources’ anyway.”While the White House did not deny the overall description of the meeting, officials strenuously insisted that Mr. Trump never used the words “AIDS” or “huts” to describe people from any country. Several participants in the meeting told Times reporters that they did not recall the president using those words and did not think he had, but the two officials who described the comments found them so noteworthy that they related them to others at the time.The meeting in June reflects Mr. Trump’s visceral approach to an issue that defined his campaign and has indelibly shaped the first year of his presidency.The Times conducted over three dozen interviews with current and former administration officials, lawmakers and others close to the process.Seizing on immigration as the cause of countless social and economic problems, Mr. Trump entered office with an agenda of symbolic but incompletely thought-out goals, the product not of rigorous policy debate but of emotionally charged personal interactions and an instinct for tapping into the nativist views of white working-class Americans.Like many of his initiatives, his effort to change American immigration policy has been executed through a disorderly and dysfunctional process that sought from the start to defy the bureaucracy charged with enforcing it, according to interviews with three dozen current and former administration officials, lawmakers and others close to the process, many of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to detail private interactions.But while Mr. Trump has been repeatedly frustrated by the limits of his power, his efforts to remake decades of immigration policy have gained increasing momentum as the White House became more disciplined and adept at either ignoring or undercutting the entrenched opposition of many parts of the government. The resulting changes have had far-reaching consequences, not only for the immigrants who have sought to make a new home in this country, but also for the United States’ image in the world.“We have taken a giant steamliner barreling full speed,” Mr. Miller said in a recent interview. “Slowed it, stopped it, begun to turn it around and started sailing in the other direction.”It is an assessment shared ruefully by Mr. Trump’s harshest critics, who see a darker view of the past year. Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, a pro-immigration group, argues that the president’s immigration agenda is motivated by racism.“He’s basically saying, ‘You people of color coming to America seeking the American dream are a threat to the white people,’” said Mr. Sharry, an outspoken critic of the president. “He’s come into office with an aggressive strategy of trying to reverse the demographic changes underway in America.”Those who know Mr. Trump say that his attitude toward immigrants long predates his entry into politics.“He’s always been fearful where other cultures are concerned and always had anxiety about food and safety when he travels,” said Michael D’Antonio, who interviewed him for the biography “The Truth About Trump.” “His objectification and demonization of people who are different has festered for decades.”Our government now imports illegal immigrants and deadly diseases. Our leaders are inept.But he remained conflicted, viewing himself as benevolent and wanting to be liked by the many immigrants he employed.“When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed. “They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems,” he continued. “They’re bringing drugs; they’re bringing crime; they’re rapists.”Democrats and some Republicans recoiled, calling Mr. Trump’s messaging damaging and divisive. But for the candidate, the idea of securing the country against outsiders with a wall had intoxicating appeal, though privately, he acknowledged that it was a rhetorical device to whip up crowds when they became listless.Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, whom Mr. Trump consults regularly on the matter, said it was not a stretch to attribute Mr. Trump’s victory to issues where Mr. Trump broke with a Republican establishment orthodoxy that had disappointed anti-immigrant conservatives for decades.But mindful of his campaign promise to quickly impose “extreme vetting,” Mr. Trump decided his first symbolic action would be an executive order to place a worldwide ban on travel from nations the White House considered compromised by terrorism.With no policy experts in place, and deeply suspicious of career civil servants they regarded as spies for President Barack Obama, Mr. Miller and a small group of aides started with an Obama-era law that identified seven terror-prone “countries of concern.” And then they skipped practically every step in the standard White House playbook for creating and introducing a major policy.The National Security Council never convened to consider the travel ban proposal. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary at the time, did not see it ahead of time. Lawyers and policy experts at the White House, the Justice Department and the Homeland Security Department were not asked to weigh in. There were no talking points for friendly surrogates, no detailed briefings for reporters or lawmakers, no answers to frequently asked questions, such as whether green card holders would be affected.White House aides resorted to Google searches and frenzied scans of the United States Code to figure out which countries were affected.But for the president, the chaos was the first, sharp evidence that he could exert power over the bureaucracy he criticized on the campaign trail.“It’s working out very nicely,” Mr. Trump told reporters in the Oval Office the next day.At a hastily called Saturday night meeting in the Situation Room, Mr. Miller told senior government officials that they should tune out the whining.Sitting at the head of the table, across from Mr. Kelly, Mr. Miller repeated what he told the president: This is what we wanted — to turn immigration enforcement back on.Mr. Kelly, who shared Mr. Trump’s views about threats from abroad, was nonetheless livid that his employees at homeland security had been called into action with no guidance or preparation. He told angry lawmakers that responsibility for the rollout was “all on me.” Privately, he told the White House, “That’s not going to happen again.”Amid the turbulent first weeks, Mr. Trump’s attempt to bend the government’s immigration apparatus to his will began to take shape.The ban’s message of “keep out” helped drive down illegal border crossings as much as 70 percent, even without being formally put into effect.Immigration officers rounded up 41,318 undocumented immigrants during the president’s first 100 days, nearly a 40 percent increase. The Justice Department began hiring more immigration judges to speed up deportations. Officials threatened to hold back funds for sanctuary cities. The flow of refugees into the United States slowed.Mr. Trump “has taken the handcuffs off,” said Steven A. Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, an advocacy group that favors more limits on immigration.Mr. Obama had been criticized by immigrant rights groups for excessive deportations, especially in his first term. But Mr. Camarota said that Mr. Trump’s approach was “a distinct change, to look at what is immigration doing to us, rather than what is the benefit for the immigrant.”The president, however, remained frustrated that the shift was not yielding results.By early March, judges across the country had blocked his travel ban. Immigrant rights activists were crowing that they had thwarted the new president. Even Mr. Trump’s own lawyers told him he had to give up on defending the ban.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Attorney General Jeff Sessions and lawyers at the White House and Justice Department had decided that waging an uphill legal battle to defend the directive in the Supreme Court would fail. Instead, they wanted to devise a narrower one that could pass legal muster.The president, though, was furious about what he saw as backing down to politically correct adversaries. He did not want a watered-down version of the travel ban, he yelled at Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, as the issue came to a head on Friday, March 3, in the Oval Office.It was a familiar moment for Mr. Trump’s advisers. The president did not mind being told “no” in private, and would sometimes relent. But he could not abide a public turnabout, a retreat. At those moments, he often exploded at whoever was nearby.As Marine One waited on the South Lawn for Mr. Trump to begin his weekend trip to Palm Beach, Fla., Mr. McGahn insisted that administration lawyers had already promised the court that Mr. Trump would issue a new order. There was no alternative, he said.“This is bullshit,” the president responded.With nothing resolved, Mr. Trump, furious, left the White House. A senior aide emailed a blunt warning to a colleague waiting aboard Air Force One at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland: “He’s coming in hot.”Over dinner that night with Mr. Sessions and Mr. McGahn, Mr. Trump relented. When he was back in Washington, he signed the new order. It was an indication that he had begun to understand — or at least, begrudgingly accept — the need to follow a process.Still, one senior adviser later recalled never having seen a president so angry signing anything.As ICE arrests have gone up, deportations have gone down. Why? It’s partly because of the complex realities of a tough policy put in practice.As a candidate, Mr. Trump had repeatedly contradicted himself about the deportations he would pursue, and whether he was opposed to any kind of path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. But he also courted conservative voters by describing an Obama-era policy as an illegal amnesty for the immigrants who had been brought to the United States as children.During the transition, his aides drafted an executive order to end the program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. But the executive order was held back as the new president struggled with conflicted feelings about the young immigrants, known as Dreamers.“We’re going to take care of those kids,” Mr. Trump had pledged to Senator Richard J. Durbin during a private exchange at his Inauguration Day luncheon.The comment was a fleeting glimpse of the president’s tendency to seek approval from whoever might be sitting across from him, and the power that personal interactions have in shaping his views.In 2013, Mr. Trump met with a small group of Dreamers at Trump Tower, hoping to improve his standing with the Hispanic community. José Machado told Mr. Trump about waking up at the age of 15 to find his mother had vanished — deported, he later learned, back to Nicaragua.“Honestly,” Mr. Machado said of Mr. Trump, “he had no idea.”Mr. Trump appeared to be touched by the personal stories, and insisted that the Dreamers accompany him to his gift shop for watches, books and neckties to take home as souvenirs. In the elevator on the way down, he quietly nodded and said, “You convinced me.”After weeks of private meetings on Capitol Hill and telephone conversations with Mr. Durbin and Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican supportive of legalizing the Dreamers, Mr. Kushner invited them to dinner at the six-bedroom estate he shares with his wife, Ivanka Trump.But Mr. Durbin’s hope of a deal faded when he arrived to the house and saw who one of the guests would be.“Stephen Miller’s presence made it a much different experience than I expected,” Mr. Durbin said later.Even as the administration was engaged in a court battle over the travel ban, it began to turn its attention to another way of tightening the border — by limiting the number of refugees admitted each year to the United States. And if there was one “deep state” stronghold of Obama holdovers that Mr. Trump and his allies suspected of undermining them on immigration, it was the State Department, which administers the refugee program.At the department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration, there was a sense of foreboding about a president who had once warned that any refugee might be a “Trojan horse” or part of a “terrorist army.”Mr. Trump had already used the travel ban to cut the number of allowable refugees admitted to the United States in 2017 to 50,000, a fraction of the 110,000 set by Mr. Obama. Now, Mr. Trump would have to decide the level for 2018.At an April meeting with top officials from the bureau in the West Wing’s Roosevelt Room, Mr. Miller cited statistics from the restrictionist Center for Immigration Studies that indicated that resettling refugees in the United States was far costlier than helping them in their own region.Mr. Miller was visibly displeased, according to people present, when State Department officials pushed back, citing another study that found refugees to be a net benefit to the economy. He called the contention absurd and said it was exactly the wrong kind of thinking.But the travel ban had been a lesson for Mr. Trump and his aides on the dangers of dictating a major policy change without involving the people who enforce it. This time, instead of shutting out those officials, they worked to tightly control the process.In previous years, State Department officials had recommended a refugee level to the president. Now, Mr. Miller told officials the number would be determined by the Department of Homeland Security under a new policy that treated the issue as a security matter, not a diplomatic one.When he got word that the Office of Refugee Resettlement had drafted a 55-page report showing that refugees were a net positive to the economy, Mr. Miller swiftly intervened, requesting a meeting to discuss it. The study never made it to the White House; it was shelved in favor of a three-page list of all the federal assistance programs that refugees used.At the United Nations General Assembly in September, Mr. Trump cited the Center for Immigration Studies report, arguing that it was more cost-effective to keep refugees out than to bring them into the United States.“Uncontrolled migration,” Mr. Trump declared, “is deeply unfair to both the sending and receiving countries.”Cecilia Muñoz, who served as Mr. Obama’s chief domestic policy adviser, said she was alarmed by the speed with which Mr. Trump and his team have learned to put their immigration agenda into effect.“The travel ban was a case of bureaucratic incompetence,” she said. “They made rookie mistakes. But they clearly learned from that experience. For the moment, all of the momentum is in the direction of very ugly, very extreme, very harmful policies.”At times, though, Mr. Trump has shown an openness to a different approach. In private discussions, he returns periodically to the idea of a “comprehensive immigration” compromise, though aides have warned him against using the phrase because it is seen by his core supporters as code for amnesty. During a fall dinner with Democratic leaders, Mr. Trump explored the possibility of a bargain to legalize Dreamers in exchange for border security.Mr. Trump even told Republicans recently that he wanted to think bigger, envisioning a deal early next year that would include a wall, protection for Dreamers, work permits for their parents, a shift to merit-based immigration with tougher work site enforcement, and ultimately, legal status for some undocumented immigrants.The idea would prevent Dreamers from sponsoring the parents who brought them illegally for citizenship, limiting what Mr. Trump refers to as “chain migration.”“He wants to make a deal,” said Mr. Graham, who spoke with Mr. Trump about the issue last week. “He wants to fix the entire system.”Yet publicly, Mr. Trump has only employed the absolutist language that defined his campaign and has dominated his presidency.Privately, in the Oval Office, the president expressed disbelief about the visa program that had admitted the suspect, confiding to a group of visiting senators that it was yet another piece of evidence that the United States’ immigration policies were “a joke.”Even after a year of progress toward a country sealed off from foreign threats, the president still viewed the immigration system as plagued by complacency.“We’re so politically correct,” he complained to reporters in the cabinet room, “that we’re afraid to do anything.”Matthew Rosenberg and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »LONDON —  Britain's plans to pass new immigration laws to control migration after it leaves the European Union have been pushed back, interior minister Amber Rudd said on Wednesday."The timing for the immigration bill has been delayed because the key element of protecting EU citizens in their rights in the UK has now been achieved through the withdrawal agreement which is going to come before parliament later this year," Rudd told a parliamentary committee."So the urgency that we had before with the white paper, with the immigration bill, has to a certain extent been removed."(Reporting by William James; editing by Alistair Smout)Go to Home Page »______The men, refugees from Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and several other countries, said they had no food, no electricity and barely any water, but because they feared they would be attacked anywhere else on the island, they plan to hold out as long as they can.“If we have to move it will be against our will,” Imran Mohmammad, 23, a Rohingya refugee from Myanmar, told me in an interview.It’s still not clear how the standoff will end (and we’ll do our best to keep covering it) but as I read and watched the news reports here in Australia, I started to think about how disconnected the discussion in Australia has become from the larger global context.The migrants on Manus are but a ripple in a much wider sea. All over the globe, displacement is spreading, migration is increasing and dozens of countries are grappling with changing ideas of national identity.The pace of government policy — the management of migration and its impacts — is simply not keeping up.But the total number of refugees admitted for resettlement last year reached only 189,300, according to government statistics, up from 107,100 in 2015. Australia accepted 27,600 refugees in 2016 compared with 46,700 for Canada and 96,900 for the United States, and even that was nowhere near satisfying the overall need.In that same period, hundreds of thousands of refugees, mostly from Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, fled their homes, risking their lives in dangerous boat trips, illegal border crossings and long bus and train journeys, seeking asylum in Western Europe and Scandinavia.Together they grabbed the public’s attention, at least for a moment.Then the moment passed.But it’s worth revisiting.We’ll be printing and framing these in our Sydney offices, and they’re worth looking at closely as Australia and the world continue to struggle with those who did not ask to flee, but feel that they must.______A train between Budapest and Vienna, filled with asylum seekers. Sept. 5, 2015.______A train at the Serbian border. Sept. 18, 2015.______Migrants walking past a church, escorted by Slovenian riot police to a registration camp outside Dobova, Slovenia. Oct. 22, 2015.______A man tries to shield his child from police beatings and tear gas at the border crossing in Horgos, Serbia. Sept. 16, 2015.What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.______Dozens of refugee families, mostly from Syria, camping underneath the Keleti train station in central Budapest. Sept. 1, 2015.______Macedonian soldiers on the Greek side of the border, where they built a fence that divides Gevgelija, Macedonia from Idomeni, where nearly 2,500 refugees were being barred from entering. Nov. 28, 2015.______A Syrian family sleeps with their children in their arms in a wheat field near Hungary. Aug. 31, 2015.______Migrants walking along a dyke, escorted by Slovenian riot police. Oct. 23, 2015.______A refugee family from Syria gets warm around a bonfire in a reception camp, in Gevgelija, Macedonia. Nov. 21, 2015.______After battling rough seas and high winds from Turkey, migrants arrive by rubber raft on a jagged shoreline of the Greek island of Lesbos. Oct. 1, 2015.______The body of a refugee who tried to cross the Aegean Sea from Turkey, in the background, on Lesbos. Three other bodies, of a 12-year-old girl, a middle-aged man and an older man, were also found that morning. Nov. 1, 2015.______Laith Majid, an Iraqi, broke into tears of joy, holding his son and daughter after they arrived safely in Kos, Greece, on a flimsy rubber boat. Aug. 15, 2015.______It’s all another sign of the tensions that mass migration can unleash, and the degree to which Mr. Trump has prioritized stiff resistance to immigrants, as both a candidate and as president.________________________Like a lot of you perhaps, I’m deeply enmeshed in the dark 1980s world of “Stranger Things” at the moment.See More »Go to Home Page »WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va. — President Trump turned up the pressure on Democrats on Thursday to come to an agreement with Republicans on protections for young undocumented immigrants, asserting that opposition leaders “talk a good game” but cared more about politics than actually resolving the matter.In a speech to Republican lawmakers at their annual retreat, Mr. Trump complained that Democrats were unwilling to budge and would rather see him fail than make progress on immigration or other issues that would benefit the country. At the same time, he warned his fellow Republicans that they would have to make compromises themselves to reach a deal.Mr. Trump moved in September to end the DACA program, which grants work permits to immigrants brought to the country illegally as children and protects them from deportation, on the grounds that President Barack Obama exceeded his authority by creating it through executive action. But Mr. Trump has expressed support for protecting those immigrants, known as Dreamers, through legislation if Congress can agree. He gave lawmakers until March 5 to take action, though his cancellation of the program is now tied up in the court system.The president’s comments on Thursday in his speech at the retreat, held at the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia, came hours after he denounced Democrats on Twitter for “doing nothing about DACA.”March 5th is rapidly approaching and the Democrats are doing nothing about DACA. They Resist, Blame, Complain and Obstruct - and do nothing. Start pushing Nancy Pelosi and the Dems to work out a DACA fix, NOW!He pressed his point all day, repeating similar themes in an evening speech to the Republican National Committee in Washington and then again in a late-night Twitter post from the White House.In Twitter posts, speeches and interviews, President Trump has expressed variety in his tone and viewpoint, sometimes on the same issue.Mr. Trump expanded on that on Thursday at the Republican retreat, rejecting the term. “Some people call it Dreamers,” he said. “It’s not Dreamers. Don’t fall into that trap.”The president expressed pique at Democrats for not applauding during his State of the Union address, even when he hailed record-low unemployment rates among black and Hispanic people.“When I made that statement the other night, there was zero movement from the Democrats,” he said. “They sat there stone cold, no smile, no applause. You would have thought that on that one they would have sort of at least clapped a little bit. Which tells you perhaps they’d rather see us not do well than see our country do great.”Democrats resent his claiming credit for falling unemployment among African-Americans not just because he has engaged in racially provocative feuds and equivocated over a white supremacist rally but because the fall in joblessness among blacks began six years before he took office.Mr. Trump also assailed Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, for minimizing the bonuses that some companies are paying workers, citing Mr. Trump’s tax cuts. Ms. Pelosi has said workers were getting “crumbs” compared with what corporations were receiving from the tax cuts and Mr. Trump compared it with Hillary Clinton’s use of the word “deplorables” to describe many of his supporters in 2016.“She called it crumbs when people are getting $2,000 and $3,000 and $1,000,” Mr. Trump said. “That’s not crumbs. That’s a lot of money.”Ms. Pelosi’s office responded by saying that Republicans were taking her words out of context to cover up the fact that their tax law enriches their wealthy donors at the expense of working people. “What’s deplorable is Republicans’ desperate effort to hide the multibillion-dollar corporate windfalls of the G.O.P. tax scam behind a handful of meager, one-time bonuses,” said Drew Hammill, her spokesman.As he addressed the Republican retreat, Mr. Trump took time to affirm that the past year had been filled with successes. He noted that months ago, critics were complaining that he had not kept his promises.“Now we’ve fulfilled far more promises than we promised,” he said, adding, “I call it ‘promises plus.’”In his remarks here, Mr. Trump reprised many of the elements of his State of the Union speech but put a particular focus on immigration, seeming intent on pressuring Republicans as well as Democrats to come to the table.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We’re going to have to compromise unless we elect more Republicans, in which case we can have it just the way everybody in this room wants it,” he said. “We have to be willing to give a little in order for our country to gain a whole lot.”Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Senate Republican, suggested that the best approach might be to narrow the scope of the legislation to only two of the four “pillars” that the president has proposed addressing, leaving out family-based immigration and the diversity visa lottery.“I think that if we can solve DACA and border security, that may be the best we can hope for,” he said. He described such a plan as a “fallback position that can pass the House, the Senate and get signed,” adding that if “other issues enter into that conversation, it gets more complicated.”With Republicans gathered for their retreat, their internal divisions over immigration were plainly visible, and the road ahead was far from clear. A schedule for the retreat listed no sessions on the subject.“I’m not interested in a skinny version on immigration,” Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, said hours after Mr. Thune offered his suggestion.Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, quickly dismissed Mr. Thune’s idea of a narrowed bill as well.“Senator Thune represents a state that’s a long ways from the southern border,” he said. “Making a suggestion that a two-pillar answer is going to get support in the House is a nonstarter.”Thomas Kaplan reported from White Sulphur Springs, and Peter Baker from Washington. Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byWASHINGTON — The Trump administration claimed victory on Tuesday in its crackdown on illegal immigration during its first several months, announcing that the number of arrests at the border dropped to the lowest in nearly a half-century as proof that its deterrence efforts have been effective.Border Patrol agents arrested 310,531 people trying to enter the country illegally during the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, a 25 percent decrease from the previous fiscal year. About one-third were from Mexico, according to the Border Patrol. Most of the rest were from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.Inside the United States, officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement also arrested 143,470 people, a 25 percent increase over the previous fiscal year, officials at the Department of Homeland Security said. The increase comes after the Trump administration reversed an Obama-era policy that only targeted those with criminal records.“We have clearly seen the successful results of the president’s commitment to supporting the front-line officers and agents of D.H.S. as they enforce the law and secure our borders,” said Elaine C. Duke, the acting Homeland Security secretary.The drop in border apprehensions and increase in interior arrests represent President Trump’s campaign pledge to more aggressively enforce the nation’s immigration laws by unleashing the full force of the Department of Homeland Security to find, arrest and deport those in the country illegally, regardless of whether they have committed serious crimes.Many agents at Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement felt that they were constrained by Obama administration rules that allowed them to go after only dangerous criminals. Unions representing workers from both agencies endorsed Mr. Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign.The department now has stepped up efforts to publicize crimes by immigrants, enlist local police officers for the effort, erect new detention facilities, discourage asylum seekers and, ultimately, speed up deportations.The release of the year-end border enforcement and immigrant arrest data came a day after the Supreme Court ruled that Mr. Trump's ban on travel to the United State by most citizens of Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea, along with some groups of people from Venezuela, can go into effect while efforts to block it proceed in the courts. The ban had been blocked by lower courts.Although Homeland Security officials touted the overall drop in arrests, they did note that, since May, arrest had ticked up, mainly because of families and unaccompanied children from Central America trying to escape violence and instability caused by fighting between drug cartels, a yearslong trend.Customs officers at airports, land crossings and seaports also denied entry to 216,370 people, a nearly 25 percent decline from 2016. Customs officers stationed abroad stopped more than 15,000 people from boarding flights to the United States, officials said.Under Trump administration policy, undocumented immigrants are eligible for arrest and deportation unless they are protected under a program such as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an Obama administration policy that allows some individuals who entered the country as minors to live and work in the country without fear of deportation.Mr. Trump ended the program in September and called on Congress to pass a replacement before he begins phasing out its protections in six months.Local officials and immigration advocates say the Trump administration’s policies have put immigrant communities on edge, with people afraid to go to school, report domestic violence, attend church or even seek medical attention.Congress has so far declined to provide funding for many of Mr. Trump’s immigration policies, including an increase the number of border agents and deportation officers and money to pay for a border wall.“We have an obligation to uphold the integrity of our immigration system, but we must do more to step up and close loopholes to protect the American worker, our economy, and our communities,” Ms. Duke said.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — For years, immigration advocates have defined hundreds of thousands of young people brought to the country illegally as children by the sympathetic term “Dreamers.” Long irritated by the rhetorical branding, President Trump finally came up with his own rejoinder: “Americans are Dreamers, too.”Although Mr. Trump characterized his immigration proposal as a “down-the-middle compromise,” his speech further alienated him from the bipartisan group of lawmakers trying to negotiate a deal. Rather than act as a catalyst for cooperation, it seemed to only deepen the divide. And it underlined the political ramifications of the nativist language that the president used in the 2016 campaign and during his first year in office.“The Democrats are going to be even less disposed to do anything the president suggests even if it’s in their interest,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates more limits on immigration. And “it hardens attitudes among Republicans that the Democrats are simply unreasonable and you can’t talk to them.”Jason Grumet, the president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, an organization in Washington that favors an agreement, said Mr. Trump clearly wanted to reach an immigration deal but was not receiving good advice about how to achieve that. “Last night’s speech didn’t preclude a deal, but it sure squandered an opportunity to advance one,” he said.In the address, Mr. Trump offered what he called an “open hand” on the issue of immigration and challenged Congress to “finally get the job done” on a long-delayed overhaul of the system. But in describing the outlines of a plan that he said “fulfills my ironclad pledge to sign a bill that puts America first,” Mr. Trump turned to the disturbing imagery of teenage girls murdered by immigrant members of the MS-13 gang.With their parents in the audience, Mr. Trump described the night that “these two precious girls were brutally murdered while walking together in their hometown.” Asking the parents to stand, the president said: “Tonight, everyone in this chamber is praying for you. Everyone in America is grieving for you.”Democrats, in particular, reacted angrily, saying the president was linking immigration to gang violence and murder. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, called the remarks “dangerous” and counterproductive to resolving the debate over the fate of the Dreamers.“The president presents himself as generous toward Dreamers, but he’s holding them hostage to the most extreme anti-immigrant agenda in generations,” Ms. Pelosi said. “We heard more insulting words of ignorance and prejudice — prejudice toward patriotic immigrant families last night.”In Twitter posts, speeches and interviews, President Trump has expressed variety in his tone and viewpoint, sometimes on the same issue.They also heard Mr. Trump try to appropriate the term Dreamer with his applause line about Americans. Publicly and privately, the president has recoiled at using the nickname, instead referring to them as “the DACA people” or the “folks from DACA,” after the acronym for President Barack Obama’s program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, that gives them work permits and protection from deportation. During a White House dinner with the top Democrats in Congress in the fall, Mr. Trump urged them not to use the word Dreamers in public.The term Dreamers was tied to legislation that has never passed Congress called the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act, or the Dream Act. Mr. Krikorian said that for too long, liberals had been able to set the terms of the debate. “The very notion, Dreamers, was a marketing coup quite frankly,” he said. “The president’s attempt at taking back the term Dreamers is likely to resonate.”Stephen Miller, the president’s top immigration adviser, and other aides devised a four-part plan to carefully navigate the difficult political terrain that has prevented numerous earlier attempts to overhaul immigration during the past two decades.Part 1 was a concession to immigration activists that would give 1.8 million young immigrants a path to citizenship, effectively restoring and expanding Mr. Obama’s DACA program by enshrining it into law. Part 2 would create a $25 billion trust fund for a border wall. Part 3 would end decades of rules allowing legal immigrants to bring their families to the country. And Part 4 would shut down a lottery program aimed at encouraging immigration from underrepresented countries.The White House described the plan last week as “extremely generous” and predicted that it would gain wide support from both sides of the aisle. That was probably overly optimistic.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Senators from both parties met before Mr. Trump’s speech on Tuesday to continue negotiations — but without much regard to his four-point plan. One Democratic aide said that the group was largely ignoring the president’s proposals and was making good progress toward a measure that could receive at least the 60 votes needed to break a filibuster. Staff members for the group are scheduled to continue discussions over the weekend.White House officials dismissed the criticism, pointing to instant polls that showed that large numbers of people agreed with the president’s immigration comments and noting that the speech drew positive reaction from Republicans, conservatives and law enforcement officials.“It made by heart swell to hear him say Americans have dreams, too,” said Mary Ann Mendoza, whose son was killed in a head-on collision with a car driven by an illegal immigrant who was high on meth. She said Mr. Trump had made a good-faith immigration proposal. “I think the Democrats need to embrace that. They need to go into it with an open mind and get to work.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, rejected the notion that Mr. Trump was refusing to compromise as “laughable.” She pointed out that the president’s plan would provide legal status for nearly three times the number of people who had signed up for protection from deportation under the DACA program started by Mr. Obama.Mr. Trump’s advisers insisted that Democratic complaints were more evidence that liberal lawmakers did not want to find a solution to fix the immigration system and protect young immigrants.“They simply are sitting on their hands and being angry instead of coming to the table to have real negotiations,” Ms. Sanders said Wednesday on CNN.See More »Go to Home Page »With France receiving a record number of asylum claims — 100,000 last year — Mr. Macron has been under increasing fire, especially from the left, for betraying France’s values.His interior minister has been criticized for promoting searches of illegal migrants in emergency shelters and stepping up deportations. Police have been accused of ripping blankets away from freezing migrants.On Tuesday, Mr. Macron fought back. But typically for the French president, he sought a middle ground, doling out favors and brickbats on both sides.He vowed that Calais, the bedraggled port that is a focal point for migrants hoping to reach England, would never again be a dumping ground for them.He chastised charitable organizations for encouraging “these men and women to settle, in an illegal status.”There are still some 600 migrants — mostly young Eritreans, Sudanese and Afghans — in and around Calais, camping out in the underbrush and scattering at the approach of the police. Still, they are invisible in the struggling town itself, where before knots of two or three were ever-present.But Mr. Macron, at times sounding defensive, seemed most at pains to reassure his critics on the left in his speech Tuesday, in a frigid and drafty hangar at a windswept police barracks in Calais.The president is not used to being accused of inhumanity, but that has been the tenor of a weekslong barrage in the media here. His face appeared on the cover of this week’s widely read magazine L’Obs encased in barbed wire; inside, a host of well-known writers took savage aim at him.In Le Monde on Tuesday, leading intellectuals, including a one-time top adviser and the head of a top think tank, accused him of having “broken with the humanism you advocated.”So on Tuesday Mr. Macron’s most pointed words were for the police officers who listened to him in stony silence, and did not applaud him at the end.The unspoken message to them: be gentle. It was an unusual admonition in the French context — a head of state chiding national law enforcement, with which a French president usually tries to closely identify.“These are human beings to whom we have a duty of humanity,” the French president said Tuesday. “You need to be exemplary, and you need to respect the dignity of each individual,” he said.Don’t allow people to have “the idea that you are practicing physical violence,” Mr. Macron said. “If there are failings, they will be sanctioned, proportional to the confidence we have in you,” he warned.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.His government is in the midst of preparing a new policy, focused on distinguishing between those who seek to establish themselves in France for economic reasons — the overwhelming majority, especially among those from Africa — and those fleeing persecution.He wants to send those in the first category home, and indeed such returns were up 16 percent last year.Still, the overwhelming majority of migrants stay in France, dispersed across “welcome centers,” waiting months for their applications to be decided on, or simply fleeing from them — some 37 percent.His rightward drift on the issue has been strategic, outflanking the far-right National Front as well as the more traditional right.The National Front has made illegal immigration its signature issue, and Mr. Macron knows that its constituency in France remains large, if dormant for the moment.Marine Le Pen, the party’s leader, has been less critical of Mr. Macron than the left has on the subject of migrants. But the president’s warnings to the police Tuesday may give her an opening.Pushing back at his critics on the left, Mr. Macron insisted Tuesday that considerable resources were being devoted to the hosting of migrants, “a reality behind these figures, a budgetary commitment,” including 20,000 housing units for refugees.On Tuesday he went a step further, saying the state would “take on” the feeding of migrants at Calais, long a sore point for the charitable associations that now perform the task.Earlier, Mr. Macron had met with migrants at a reception center in the small town of Croisilles, south of Calais. He engaged in an almost tender exchange with one, a young Sudanese man named Ahmed, as reported by a pool reporter for Agence France-Presse who was allowed to witness the scene.“Have you made friends here?” the president asked Ahmed, according to the pool reporter.“It takes a lot of willpower to try to learn French,” Ahmed said.“We are going to help you,” Mr. Macron said, putting his hand on Ahmed’s shoulder. “And I believe that what you have said so far speaks to a case requiring asylum,” Mr. Macron said.At which Ahmed smiled.Go to Home Page »As Congress considers a deal to provide relief for young immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, President Trump and his Republican allies are demanding an end to what they call “chain migration,” or family-based immigration.The term itself has become a point of contention. Democrats and immigration advocates claim it is a pejorative phrase that demeans recent arrivals. Republicans argue it’s a useful shorthand for family sponsorship.Below is a look at the facts behind recent family/chain immigration patterns, the underlying federal policies that govern them, and a look at how use of the phrase “chain migration” itself has very suddenly become a contentious and polarizing part of the debate.How does the sponsorship process work?After a petition is filed and approved, would-be immigrants are essentially handed a ticket number called a “priority date” and can only apply for a green card when the State Department calls their number.Depending on the country of origin, a sponsor’s immigration status and the applicant’s relationship to their sponsor, the waiting period can last from months to decades.What is the relationship between “chain migration” and DACA?To apply for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, immigrants had to be younger than 31 on June 15, 2012, and must have proof of having arrived in the United States before age 16.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.If Dreamers are given a pathway to citizenship through legislation, they in turn could sponsor their parents for legal status as well. But those who entered the United States illegally are required to leave the country and wait three or 10 years before applying for an immigration visa. That’s “a significant barrier most would be unlikely to contemplate,” according to the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute.Where does chain migration come in?Why the sudden uptick?Democrats, meanwhile, prefer the term “family reunification” and say the practice is a reflection of American values.“Chain Migration” is an epithet. It was invented. The term is “family immigration” and it’s the way America has literally always worked.Leo Chavez, a professor at the University of California at Irvine who studies media representations of immigration, said he had seldom heard ”chain migration” in public discourse until the debate over immigration intensified in the last few months.“It’s an attempt to sway public opinion,” Mr. Chavez said, adding that the once-scholarly term has taken on negative connotations as “if it’s a conspiracy, a plot, a threat to the changing demographics.”It is not unlike “anchor baby,” “the browning of America” or even “Dreamers,” on the flip side, Mr. Chavez said. Such phrases have become more common in the ongoing debate about “how you talk about who are citizens, who are members of the nation and who can become Americans. It’s never a settled question. It hasn’t been for 200 years and it isn’t now.”See More »Go to Home Page »OTTAWA — John Tory, the mayor of the only city outside the United States to make the list of 20 finalists for Amazon’s second headquarters displayed some typical Canadian modesty on Thursday. Toronto, Mr. Tory said, had only “made the playoffs.”But regardless of the outcome, the announcement that the city remains a contender showed how much progress Toronto, and the surrounding region, have made in establishing themselves as a major technology center.Amazon offered few details on Thursday about how it had come up with its 20 finalists. Unlike several other finalists, the region offered no tax or other incentives. But Mr. Tory said he believed that the area had two important virtues.In sharp contrast to President Trump’s efforts to limit the entry of people from some predominately Muslim countries into the United States, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has repeatedly emphasized that Canada is open to people of all religions and backgrounds.“We’re able to attract the best and the brightest from around the world,” Mr. Tory said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We have a talent pool, and we have the educational policies to make sure the pipeline is full,” Mr. Tory said.But the Toronto area also has a potentially unattractive feature: ever-escalating prices both for homes and for commercial real estate. Its bid proposes several potential sites for Amazon’s second headquarters, among them the largely abandoned docklands that include the Google-related redevelopment plan.Frank Scarpitti, the mayor of Markham, Ontario, which is already home to operations of IBM and the chip maker AMD, dismissed the idea that land and housing prices could be a deal breaker. He noted that several other finalists, including New York, had similar or higher costs.Soon after the announcement, Kathleen Wynne, the premier of Ontario, appointed Ed Clark, the former president and chief executive of the Toronto-Dominion Bank, to coordinate the province’s reply.Mr. Tory said the cities would probably have to wait for Amazon’s next move before taking any action of their own.“We don’t know what they’re expecting from us,” he said. “There has been no playbook or playoff schedule supplied to the 20 finalists.”Go to Home Page »Those derisive statements and others help explain why Democrats entered into the politically perilous fight. After several fruitless efforts at overhauling the nation’s immigration laws, Democrats simply do not trust Republicans, who control Congress and the White House, to follow through on pledges to protect hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants from deportation unless forced to do so.From Mr. Trump on down, Republicans have regularly expressed a desire to provide relief and certainty to the so-called Dreamers, those brought into the country illegally at a young age. But Republicans have struggled to produce a remedy that does not provoke an uproar from anti-immigrant elements of their base, leading Democrats to wonder how a bill to grant permanent protection to those immigrants could pass, particularly in the House.“He promised he loved the Dreamers from his heart, that we would be able to work in a bipartisan way,” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, said Saturday of Mr. Trump. “But he always seems to be pushed back from it.”Democrats have other issues with the administration’s spending priorities, but the impasse over the hundreds of thousands of Dreamers covered under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, is central to the fight. And skepticism over the ability to reach a deal is attributable to the dismal record of Congress and two previous administrations in their efforts to make changes to what virtually all parties agree is a broken immigration system.During the tenures of both George W. Bush and Barack Obama, some of the most influential dealmakers in the Senate — Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, among them — tried repeatedly to forge a compromise that would increase border security and provide a path to legalization for millions of undocumented immigrants.But public sentiment had shifted among Republicans and their constituents despite the support for an immigration overhaul from the top of the party. The deals either collapsed in the Senate or were never even brought up in the House, where sentiment against anything that could be branded as “amnesty” runs deep.“It just all blew up and fell apart,” said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia and a participant in bipartisan immigration talks in 2005 who remembered getting bricks for a border wall sent to his office in protest of his effort to forge a deal.Hundreds of thousands of federal workers would be furloughed, affecting a wide range of government programs.Democrats say that twice in recent weeks and another time last year, Mr. Trump appeared to consent to at least the outlines of an agreement that would provide permanent protection for those immigrants. But then he quickly reversed course upon consultation with the hard-line advisers on immigration who have the president’s ear once Democrats depart.Mr. Schumer said that in a White House luncheon meeting Friday, he offered significant concessions for the DACA legislation, including a large increase in Pentagon spending as well as an agreement to meet the president’s demand for money for the border wall with Mexico that Democrats had previously refused. Democrats say the White House rejected the proposal hours later, asserting that it did not go far enough to limit the ability of new immigrants to bring in more relatives to live in the United States.The president’s shifting positions have left Democrats exasperated.“I essentially agreed to give the president something he has said he wants in exchange for something we both want,” Mr. Schumer said on Sunday.Republicans say that this situation is different from ones that led to previous immigration failures, and that they are fully committed to negotiating in good faith when the shutdown is ended.“Now we have a deadline and we have bipartisan willingness to deal with the issue,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican. “I think it’s different.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Both Republicans and Democrats say Mr. Trump’s endorsement of any immigration deal is essential, since it is the only way a sufficient number of House Republicans could be enticed to vote for it under cover of Mr. Trump’s backing.“That makes it easier for House action,” said Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has been part of the latest round of bipartisan immigration talks. “I think if he finds a way to like it, they can pass it in the House.”But Mr. Trump’s backing is no guarantee of Republican votes. And even if he does endorse a plan, Republicans worry that he could change his mind at any time.In recent months, Republicans suggested that they would hold a strong hand in any funding showdown because Democrats would be reluctant to force a government shutdown over undocumented immigrants. If Democrats did, Republicans figured they would have a strong message to counter with by attacking Democrats as willing to shortchange Americans to help those who entered the country illegally.They are now aggressively pressing that line of assault. But the message is also provoking new doubts about the sincerity of Republican determination to help Dreamers, muddying an immigration debate that is at the center of the conflict and has confounded Washington for almost 20 years.See More »Go to Home Page »“After Lindsey and I left the room and got in the car together to come back to Capitol Hill, it was silence in the car,” Mr. Durbin, of Illinois, recalled in an interview on Thursday, describing their mutual distress at the ominous turn the negotiations had taken as well as the president’s conduct. “We had just witnessed something that neither one of us ever expected.”And the uproar surrounding the disclosure of Mr. Trump’s language has added a huge complication, stirring outrage among Democrats and their allies and sowing confusion among Republicans about the president’s true aims. Most Democrats are refusing to help pass any temporary spending plan without the immigration legislation and Republicans are having a difficult time rounding up votes on their own.In recounting events, Mr. Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, who has been pushing to protect young immigrants for nearly two decades, noted that he had a promising telephone call with Mr. Trump hours before last week’s meeting. Then he was invited to join Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a longtime advocate of an immigration law overhaul, at the White House for what they believed was a session to complete a bipartisan agreement to protect the young immigrants known as Dreamers in exchange for new border security and other immigration law changes.Instead, they ran into a buzz saw of angry and coarse opposition from the president, reinforced by the surprise presence of hard-line opponents of immigration overhaul from the House and Senate.“The deck was stacked against us as the president walked in the room,” said Mr. Durbin, who said Mr. Graham, seated next to the president, began laying out the specifics of the pending agreement only to have the meeting quickly deteriorate.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“He barely had a sentence or two out of his mouth, then the president started commenting. ‘Who is affected by that? What is this going to do?’” said Mr. Durbin, the sole Democrat of a dozen people present. “It was a very tough conversation starting immediately.”“The language that was used, the attitude of the president, the expressions he made when it came to immigration just stunned me,” Mr. Durbin said.Mr. Durbin, who has been in Congress for more than three decades and is no stranger to political back rooms, said the meeting was not the usual case of salty language shared among politicians gathered behind closed doors.“It was beyond, and the intensity of the president’s feeling, and what he said there, as well as many other epithets during the course of it, I was surprised and shocked in a way,” he said, noting that upon his return to the Capitol, some colleagues commented on his demeanor.“They said, ‘You look shaken,’ and I said I was,” he said. “After you have been in politics as long I have, it takes something to shake you up.”Mr. Durbin then began discussing the meeting in public the next morning while in Chicago after the White House did not deny reports of what transpired. The president and others attending the meeting only later challenged exactly what expletives were used in describing countries that Mr. Trump wanted to prevent from sending migrants to the United States.Though the disclosure has roiled the negotiations, Mr. Durbin said it has also provided better context of the president’s immigration stance.Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois discusses how President Trump’s racially charged comments led to a showdown over keeping the government open.“Now that the American people have a clearer understanding of the president’s motivation on immigration, it makes it easier to confront some of the things he’s suggesting,” Mr. Durbin said.He noted that the president previously said his focus was on border security, preventing terrorists from entering the country and protecting jobs for American workers. The new comments, Mr. Durbin suggested, show that racial origin might be a consideration, as well. He said he warned Mr. Trump that singling out Haitians for exclusion was “an obvious racial decision.”“This may not be about security or American jobs at all,” Mr. Durbin said. “It may be about something else.”Mr. Durbin stopped short, though, of branding Mr. Trump a racist.“That’s a tough thing to say,” he said. “But I will tell you this: Some of the comments he made were clearly racial during the course of that meeting in the White House. They were hate-filled and vile.”The meeting caused a rare situation where members of the Senate are publicly questioning each other’s veracity. Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia, both Republicans, were in the meeting and have disputed Mr. Durbin’s account, saying the word “shithole” in reference to some countries was not used.“How could you sit in the Oval Office of the White House and hear the president of the United States use this word and not remember it,” Mr. Durbin asked. “I will just have to tell you they are wrong and they know they are wrong.”Mr. Durbin said that a decision by some Republicans to break with the president’s position — along with mounting frustration over a series of short-term spending bills — has contributed to growing support for the bipartisan immigration agreement. He remains optimistic that a deal is in reach.But Mr. Durbin also was hopeful last week before the president, in a burst of profanity, unraveled an agreement and Congress must now negotiate the aftermath.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Senate negotiators found themselves back at Square 1 on immigration on Tuesday, as the Senate Democratic leader withdrew the biggest gesture he had made to strike a deal: an offer to fully fund President Trump’s proposed wall at the Mexican border.Mr. Schumer’s decision to renege, made on Sunday but revealed publicly on Tuesday, marked another turn in the fluid debate over how to shield from deportation hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children.As part of a deal to end the shutdown, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, promised what he called a “fair and open” immigration debate on the Senate floor.But just when that debate will happen, and what legislation will serve as its starting point, was unclear on Tuesday. Several bipartisan groups were meeting to try to address the fate of the young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers, but the withdrawal of Mr. Schumer’s offer brought a fresh round of partisan recriminations that could threaten those nascent talks.“If he wants a solution, that’s a step backward,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate.Further muddying the conversation, the White House refuses to acknowledge the offer that Senate leaders on both sides of the aisle have confirmed.“Senator Schumer is trying to rescind an offer that he never made in the first place, and misled the public about,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Now the Senate has a new immigration deadline: Feb. 8, the date that a stopgap spending measure approved on Monday will expire. Mr. McConnell has said that if the fate of the young undocumented immigrants is not resolved by then, he will allow the floor debate on immigration.“What came out of this mess was a date certain to move on immigration,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a longtime advocate of an immigration overhaul who has been deeply involved in the bipartisan talks. “That’s positive. Whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, we’re now moving on immigration. That wouldn’t have happened without this conflict.”But hard-liners on immigration were not budging.“I think the top priority for Senate Democrats is amnesty for people here illegally,” said Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. “They just shut the government down over amnesty, and so I don’t think Senator Schumer and Senate Democrats are interested in securing the border.”Such voices would dominate debate in the House, where twice, in the Obama and George W. Bush presidencies, bipartisan comprehensive overhauls of the nation’s immigration laws have died. But senators, given the green light by their leaders, pressed ahead.If nothing else, passage of a bipartisan immigration bill in the Senate would shift the political focus to the House, where the bulk of the 2018 election will be fought.But one thing is certain: The president and his allies on Capitol Hill will almost certainly reject any proposal that does not include funding for the “big, beautiful wall” that Mr. Trump promised to build along the southern border, though he had said Mexico would pay for it.The administration has asked Congress for $18 billion to build the wall; Mr. Cornyn said that in negotiations with the White House before the shutdown, Mr. Schumer had offered the president $25 billion. A spokesman for Mr. Schumer declined to comment but did not dispute the figure.But Mr. Schumer said he rescinded the offer because Mr. Trump had rejected the rest of the immigration package.“The wall offer was made as part of a broader deal. The president rejected that broader deal, so the offer is off the table,” Mr. Schumer said.Mr. Graham said he had a message for the administration. “To my friends at the White House: You’ve been all over the board,” he said. “You haven’t been a reliable partner, and the Senate is going to move. Please be constructive as we go forward. If you’ve got any ideas, let us know, but the Senate is going to lead on this issue.”The week before the shutdown, a bipartisan group of six senators led by Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Mr. Graham proposed a measure that would have provided a path to citizenship for DACA recipients, as well as more than $2.5 billion for border security and a grant of protected status for the parents of the Dreamers, who would be barred from sponsoring their parents for citizenship.But Mr. Trump objected to that plan during a White House meeting in which he used vulgar, insulting language to describe African immigrants. That rejection and the ensuing firestorm set back the talks.There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.At the White House on Tuesday, Ms. Sanders underscored the administration’s opposition to the proposal. From the briefing room podium, Ms. Sanders rejected it as a potential part of a framework for a new deal.“It’s totally unacceptable to the president and should be declared dead on arrival,” she told reporters.But in a reflection of how much the debate has revolved around bluster instead of substance, Ms. Sanders said at the same briefing that she did not think the sides were “that far apart.”That was not the sense on Capitol Hill on Tuesday. Lawmakers who have been working to resolve the DACA recipients’ status confessed that they did not know where they were headed. Asked what the next step would be, Mr. Durbin shrugged.“I don’t know the answer,” he said. “I went to a meeting yesterday, a bipartisan meeting of senators, and we’ll see where it goes.”While Mr. Durbin has suggested that the Durbin-Graham proposal should be the starting point for negotiations, Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has been a key participant in the bipartisan talks and has a history of bucking his party on immigration, said that would not be the case.“We’ve negotiated a lot of these things,” Mr. Flake said. “We know where the contours are. But we’re not starting with any template.”Talks that helped end the shutdown were led by a group of about 25 senators — Republicans, Democrats and an independent — who called themselves the Common Sense Coalition. They met in the office of Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.Ms. Collins said Tuesday that while she did not intend for that group to pre-empt other efforts on immigration, its members “will be getting together to figure out if there’s a role for us to play.”But any effort to pull the Senate to the center on immigration will almost certainly be met with resistance from hard-liners, among them Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, who said he was “already in the center of the immigration conversation.”Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Carlos had cooked food for firefighters during a big blaze in town. He donated to scholarships at the local high school. He hosted an appreciation day for law enforcement officers at the Mexican restaurant he managed. One resident put it this way: “I am all for immigration reform, but this time you have arrested a GOOD MAN.”We are hoping that many people from West Frankfort and the surrounding towns will come and share their questions, story ideas and daily concerns. I am eager to hear them. You can submit questions in advance in the comments of this article.Date: Thursday, Dec. 14, 2017Time: 5:30 p.m.Location:The Old Firehouse Event Center108 N. Emma StreetWest Frankfort, Ill.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The ground rules were simple: Senators wishing to voice their opinion needed to wait their turn and could speak only once they had grabbed hold of a Masai tribal talking stick.“I needed order,” Ms. Collins said in an interview on Monday, referring to the hand-carved wooden talking stick from Africa — a gift from Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota.Apparently it worked. By Monday afternoon, when the Senate voted overwhelmingly to end the three-day shutdown, the group convened by Ms. Collins was credited with nudging together the Senate leadership toward a deal to reopen the federal government in exchange for a promise from Republican leaders to address the fate of young, undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.At least for now, the group, which calls itself the Common Sense Coalition, fulfilled the hope — long talked about but rarely realized — that a centrist contingent could bridge an otherwise deeply divided Senate. The question was whether it could hold together long enough to forge a much grander bargain over a disparate set of pressing issues before Congress: Raising limits on domestic and military spending, providing disaster relief to storm-ravaged states and a more comprehensive immigration deal to address the Dreamers and border security.“The effort has resulted in the government reopening. That was the critical first step,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska. “But now the real work begins.”At a nearly giddy news conference just off the Senate floor on Monday, Democrats and Republicans gushed over the possibilities and spoke of meetings to come.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Susan’s office is Switzerland,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said. “It is the one place we can all go and feel good.”Senator Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat, was just as effusive: “We can make a lasting difference in how the Senate of the United States works,” he said before snapping a picture of the group on his iPhone. “We can get it back to working.”The group’s maneuvering offered members of both parties an escape hatch from a bitter dispute that Republicans and Democrats said could have easily stretched on days longer.The coalition, which was first formed amid an earlier government shutdown, in the fall of 2013, began to stir to life on Friday afternoon, as it became clear the Senate would be unable to stave off a shutdown. Ms. Collins approached Senator Joe Manchin III, the West Virginia Democrat and the coalition’s co-chairman, on the Senate floor, and within hours a group of 17 senators were crowded into her office to sketch out terms of engagement.The group eventually came to include a broad swath of institutionally minded senators, including the Republicans Jeff Flake of Arizona, Johnny Isakson of Georgia and Mike Rounds of South Dakota, and the Democrats Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Tim Kaine of Virginia and Doug Jones of Alabama.Members of the group spent the weekend shuttling between Ms. Collins’s overcrowded office, where they snacked on Girl Scout cookies and popcorn, and the office suites of Mr. McConnell and Senator Chuck Schumer, the party leaders. As the weekend wore on, the group kept growing, up to 25 by Monday — crowded enough that one senator had to sit on a credenza.They cycled through a series of ideas: Further shortening the length of the short-term spending bill; attaching a bill to protect Dreamers to another piece of must-pass legislation; demanding that Mr. McConnell put an immigration bill authored by Mr. Graham and Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, on the floor for a vote. Each was eventually deemed untenable.By Sunday afternoon, the group had settled on a compromise that would fund the government for three weeks alongside a commitment by Mr. McConnell that the Senate would move expeditiously to take up the immigration issue. The challenge was getting the leaders to agree.Mr. McConnell signaled Sunday night that he was listening to their suggestion, saying on the Senate floor that it was “my intention” to move ahead with immigration legislation.But Democrats, led by Mr. Schumer, wanted more. The issue was whether the majority leader could be trusted to keep his word. Democrats have not forgiven Mr. McConnell for blocking the Supreme Court nomination of Merrick B. Garland for almost a year in hopes that a Republican would be elected to the White House.Asked Monday morning how much of an issue that mistrust was, Mr. Manchin was clear. “Uh, most of it,” he said.Mr. Schumer asked Ms. Collins to meet him in his office late Sunday after Mr. McConnell’s remarks and said he needed more clarity and assurance from the majority leader. Mr. Flake, who had initially supported the shutdown along with most Democrats, worked into the night with Ms. Collins to edge Mr. McConnell toward a more explicit statement.Monday morning, he firmed up his pledge enough to win over Democrats, saying that the Senate’s immigration debate would have “a level playing field at the outset and an amendment process that is fair to all sides.” Behind the scenes, Republicans in the bipartisan group who had tied their interests to Democrats vouched for Mr. McConnell’s word.“I said before, ‘Trust but verify,’” Senator Angus King of Maine, an independent who caucuses with Democrats, said of Mr. McConnell. “He made this commitment publicly in the Senate floor. He was much more specific than he was last night. And frankly I think this is an important opportunity for him to demonstrate that he will carry through.”By the time Democratic and Republican senators met privately with their respective caucuses later Monday morning, it was clear it was enough to get to yes. Mr. Schumer told Democrats he would support reopening the government.Not all Democrats were convinced. Senator Kamala D. Harris, Democrat of California and one of more than a dozen liberal Democrats who voted against the funding bill, said Mr. McConnell’s comments on Sunday night “fell far short of the ironclad guarantee” she needed.But Mr. Flake said the Republican leader had made clear to Democrats he had done what he could do.“Standing on the floor and saying we are going to proceed to an immigration bill in this environment with this kind of attention being paid to it is a pretty good promise,” he said.An earlier version of this article, quoting Senator Susan Collins of Maine, misidentified the origins of the senator’s talking stick. It was Masai, not Native American.Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »With jitters and with prayers, with countdown clocks in their heads and their immigration lawyers on speed-dial, hundreds of thousands of young immigrants have spent all fall and winter watching President Trump and congressional leaders negotiate their fate, every fleck of news a tantalizing omen.“It’s like watching a telenovela: Every day is different,” said Francis Madi, 28, who was brought to the United States from Venezuela in 2003 and now lives on Long Island. “Now we’re just going to the stressful part of the telenovela where you wonder what will happen to the protagonist.”The protagonist, in this case, happens to be her.Perhaps more than any other single group of people in the country, the Dreamers, as these young immigrants are known, have had their lives shaped directly by the mood swings of national politics.Hafsa Mamun, 18, spends about 30 minutes a night scrolling through news stories about the negotiations after she gets home from classes at Hunter College in Manhattan, where she is a freshman. Born in Malawi to Indian parents and brought to the United States as a 5-year-old, Ms. Mamun’s protected status expires in 2019. She said she had not made any plans about the future because things were so uncertain.“It’s like you’re on edge constantly,” she said. “One day you have hope that it might go through, and then something else comes up.”An agreement did seem to be staggering closer on Tuesday, though how much closer seemed impossible for even the negotiators to predict amid the welter of bewildering signals from Mr. Trump. After a year of holding a hard line on immigration, the president suggested in a meeting with congressional leaders that he supported not only a deal to protect the Dreamers but also a comprehensive immigration reform package, raising the possibility that the DACA recipients’ security could hinge on a much messier set of compromises.Republicans, meanwhile, were still pushing to tie any benefits for the young immigrants to curbs on family-based legal immigration, border security and other conservative priorities that Democrats and immigration advocates have frowned upon.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.“We’re being held hostage as a bargaining chip,” said Rafael Robles, 26, a DACA recipient in Chicago who owns an architecture, design and real estate development firm. “I’m not advocating for the Dream Act at the expense of everyone else.”On Tuesday night, a federal judge in San Francisco ruled that the Trump administration had ended the program improperly and ordered it restarted. Though immigration advocates welcomed the ruling, they cautioned that they expected it to be challenged, if not overturned, and warned that a court order was no substitute for an act of Congress.It was around 5 a.m. in Fall River, Mass., when Hellosa Silva, 18, a high school senior who came to the United States from Brazil when she was an infant, was jolted awake by a news alert on her cellphone informing her of the judge’s decision.“I read it and got super excited,” she said.Immigration lawyers were deluged on Wednesday morning with clients eager to take advantage of the court-ordered reinstatement. Jeremy McKinney, an immigration lawyer in North Carolina whose firm has more than 1,000 clients with DACA, said he posted the court ruling on the firm’s Facebook page late Tuesday, only for his phones to blow up in the morning.Mr. McKinney said that he had advised his clients against filing renewal paperwork because there was no guarantee that the administration would approve any new applications, even if it did not win on appeal, and he did not feel comfortable accepting legal fees for what would likely be a futile effort.It was difficult news to break to clients who are emotionally exhausted.“We certainly have been wearing our counselor hats here at the law firm,” he said. “We do our best to talk them through it, to kind of decrease their anxiety levels, but frankly, it’s not working.”Ramiro Luna was working late on Tuesday in Dallas when he saw the news about the judge’s ruling on Facebook. It did little to relieve the tension he felt every time he thought about his DACA status — which was to say, every time he looked at the countdown clock on his iPhone that tells him how many days he has left before it expires.On Wednesday, the clock stood at 280 days.“Every single day,” he said, “I feel like I have one day left to consider myself safe here.”Mr. Luna, 33, came to the United States from Mexico with his father at the age of 7. Now studying psychology at the University of North Texas at Dallas, he works as the campaign manager for State Representative Victoria Neave, a Dallas Democrat.He said he had grown accustomed to living with chaos and uncertainty. For one thing, he might lose his work permit before ballots are cast in the election he is working on.DACA has allowed its recipients to get jobs, go to college, obtain driver’s licenses and open 401(k)s. All of those opportunities are now at risk.“We’re at the mercy of the administration. We’re at the mercy of court rulings,” Mr. Luna said. “Right now I’m already thinking: What kind of remedial job am I going to be able to do without documentation?”For Missael Garcia, 27, the question was no longer theoretical. The work permit he obtained through DACA has already expired, forcing him to give up his job as a mentor with the Baltimore city schools system. Now he works as a restaurant cook, paid off the books in cash, he said.On Wednesday, unwilling to leave matters to a judge, he was in Washington, knocking on lawmakers’ doors with a Baltimore-based advocacy group, Casa in Action.“I feel like this government says things that get people excited and then gets their hopes up,” he said, “and at the end of the day it’s like a stab in the back.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Knocking on doors, calling members of Congress, spreading the word on social media: Activism was the only hope most DACA recipients had of influencing a process that had played out in front of millions, on television and in news outlets across the country, yet would ultimately come down to the inclinations of a few.Most immigration activists believe their best chance at a deal for the Dreamers is now, when Democrats can threaten to withhold support for a spending bill Congress would need to pass to prevent the government from shutting down on Jan. 19.More than 100 DACA recipients have been traipsing throughout the Capitol in Washington for the past two days, telling their stories to lawmakers in an urgent effort to persuade them to enshrine the program into law.One of them was Hector Rivera Suarez, 20, the student body president at Guilford College, in Greensboro, N.C., whose DACA status expires Jan. 21.“Now I feel like I don’t have control over my own future anymore,” he said. “I had all these plans, but now it’s up to someone else to make those decisions for me.”Liz Robbins contributed reporting from New York, and Manny Fernandez from Houston.See More »Go to Home Page »The argument was genteel, the tone judicious, the meaning plain: America, wrote the senator leading Congress’s push for immigration reform in 1924, was beginning to “smart under the irritation” of immigrants who “speak a foreign language and live a foreign life.”The year before, things had been slightly less decorous. A certain unnamed country in Europe was “making the United States a dumping ground for its undesirable nationals,” the president of the American Museum of Natural History, Henry Fairfield Osborn, told a national immigration conference.Here in the earliest weeks of 2018, the worldview that last gained wide acceptance nearly a century ago has found perhaps its most succinct expression yet — distilled, this time, to a pungent question from President Trump: Why should the United States take in immigrants from “shithole countries” in Africa over people from places like Norway?His commentary struck many Republicans as well as Democrats as extreme, if not outright racist. But the words were a Twitter-era detonation of an attitude that once before shaped American immigration policy, an attitude that, even after the country tried to reverse itself by loosening immigration laws in the 1960s, seems to have loitered on in the national attic.Its resurfacing in the public sphere capsizes a half-century of mainstream consensus: that immigrants enrich the United States, no matter where they come from.“Obviously he likes Norwegians because they are white,” she added. “But he knows nothing about Norway, a country with single-payer universal health care and free college education. Why would anyone want to leave Norway for the U.S.?”But first came 1924, when the people in charge spoke openly of ranking immigrants of certain origins above others.That was the year Congress passed an immigration overhaul that set strict quotas designed to encourage immigrants from Western Europe, block all but a few from Southern and Eastern Europe and bar altogether those from Asia. Overall immigration levels were slashed. The racial theories at play in the legislation, wrote the immigration historian Roger Daniels, would later become the first draft of “the official ideology of Nazi Germany.”There were some familiar refrains in the 1924 immigration debate. Cheap immigrant labor had depressed wages, the restrictionists said. Immigrants had seized jobs from Americans, they said. But it was also heavy on racist rhetoric aimed at preserving what eugenicists and social theorists of the time called the “Nordic” race that, in their telling, had originally settled the United States.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The bill’s authors had been avid readers of the 1916 book “The Passing of the Great Race,” in which the eugenicist Madison Grant warned that the country was in danger of a “replacement of a higher type by a lower type here in America unless the native American uses his superior intelligence to protect himself and his children from competition with intrusive peoples drained from the lowest races of Eastern Europe.”Under the 1924 law, the number of visas given to each country could not exceed annual quotas based on the number of people from that country who were living in the United States as of the 1890 census, before the flow of new Americans had begun to tilt away from Western European countries.The United States, the law’s supporters said, could now dispense with the “melting pot.” The only new immigrants who would be allowed to come would already look, act and speak like the Americans already here.Englishmen and Germans were welcome; Italians and Jews, not so much. No Asians need apply. (Incidentally, Norway, home to many Nordics, was also subject to a quota, though it was given significantly more slots than countries including Greece, Spain, Turkey and Hungary.)But fewer Europeans, and far more Latin Americans and Asians, knocked on the door.The consequences of the 1965 law were unforeseen by all. They were downright alarming to some.“When the numbers reached about this high in 1924, the president and Congress changed the policy, and it slowed down immigration significantly,” Mr. Sessions said. Those who came to the United States through the 1924 quotas assimilated into the country and helped create “really the solid middle class of America,” he continued.But, he said, “We passed a law that went far beyond what anybody realized in 1965, and we’re on a path now to surge far past what the situation was in 1924.”Living conditions in Haiti, they said, had improved enough that Haiti could “safely receive” its citizens.Jack Begg contributed research.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialThe judge’s ruling on Wednesday is temporary and the state will appeal it, but it did not seem at all disconnected from the powerful display of America projected before the nation. Houston and five other major sanctuary cities and counties sued to block a Texas law’s attempt to reinforce the nativist political gospel of President Trump and the strong-arm tactics of former Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who pioneered the use of local police officers as enforcers of federal law in abusive dragnets across Latino communities in Arizona.The law, scheduled to take effect on Friday, blocks local limits on immigration enforcement, allows the police to question the immigration status of people they detain or arrest, and seeks to punish uncooperative officials with fines, jail time and removal from office. It speeds up the transfer of undocumented immigrants to federal custody after they are released from state or local custody, with jail and fines of more than $25,000 for officials who resist.The temporary injunction by a Federal District Court judge, Orlando Garcia, blocked most of these provisions. The judge also halted the law’s blanket mandate against local governments’ adopting or endorsing policies limiting enforcement of immigration laws. He said the law could not prevent localities from taking a stand just because it was inconsistent with the state government’s policy. He did allow police officers limited discretion to question the immigration status of people they detain and share it without causing prolonged detention, but said the information could not be used as grounds for arrest.The fate of the law’s draconian assault on civil rights will depend on further litigation. But it is impossible this week to ignore the contrast with struggling Texans — civilians and law officers — helping one another without demanding immigration papers.As with the Texas law, this would push constitutional protections aside and make sheriffs Orwellian contractors of ICE enforcement. The fight over Mr. Trump’s xenophobic view of America has only begun and is proving to be a cruel storm unto itself.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSLOS ANGELES — For nearly a decade, Yonis Bernal felt perfectly secure carrying a green card that allowed him to live and work legally in the United States. Becoming a citizen was not a priority.He changed his mind after Donald J. Trump clinched the presidency.“All this tough talk about immigrants got me thinking I still could be deported,” said Mr. Bernal, 49, a truck driver who left El Salvador in 1990 and has two teenage children. “You never know.”Last week, he was among 3,542 immigrants who raised their right hands to take the oath at a naturalization ceremony inside the Los Angeles Convention Center, joining a growing wave of new citizens across the country.And with an unrelenting stream of hard-line rhetoric and enforcement in the news, as well as a swell of citizenship drives and advocacy, there are no signs the trend is abating.“The draw of U.S. citizenship becomes more powerful when you have the political and policy environment that you have right now,” said Rosalind Gold, senior policy director at the Naleo Educational Fund, a national bipartisan Latino group.About 8.8 million people are eligible to become American citizens, meaning they have been lawful permanent residents, or had a green card, for at least five years.In the first three quarters of the 2017 fiscal year — from Oct. 1, 2016, through June 30, the latest period for which data is available — 783,330 people filed applications, compared with the 725,925 who filed during the same months a year earlier. The current figure is well on pace to surpass the 971,242 who applied in the 2016 fiscal year.With the surge of applications, the processing backlog has ballooned. There were 708,638 pending applications at the end of June, a steady rise from 522,565 at the end of the 2016 fiscal year and 291,833 in 2010. The average wait time has doubled, to 8.6 months from four months a few years ago, with applicants in cities like Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas and Miami waiting a year or longer.The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which processes the applications, said it was enlisting officers to work overtime and seeking to fill vacancies, noting “there is no quick fix” for the delays.But the current political climate is compelling many to look past any deterrents.Permanent residency can be revoked, and green card holders can be deported if they are convicted on charges such as aggravated felonies, drug trafficking and crimes of “moral turpitude,” which can be broadly defined. Each time a permanent resident leaves the United States, re-entry is at the discretion of an immigration official.Citizenship protects immigrants from deportation if they commit a crime, and gives them access to federal benefits and jobs that are restricted to citizens.Ahead of the presidential election last year, several nonprofits began campaigns to encourage citizenship and guide immigrants through the application process, an effort that has not let up. Many cities, including Miami, Portland and Salt Lake City, have unveiled naturalization drives this year, and adult-education programs have added free citizenship courses for applicants.On a recent Saturday, the line for a workshop in Houston began forming at 3:30 a.m. Among the 100 attendees were Isidra Moreno, 72, a green card holder for 20 years, and Isabel Sanchez, 28, who has had one since she was a child.“We immigrants are feeling threatened,” said Ms. Moreno in Spanish. She said she was concerned after watching on the news that laws could change, which she feared would undermine her right to remain in the country with her two American daughters.Ms. Sanchez said that she decided to naturalize after applying for a job at a call center, only to be told after passing several steps in the interview process that she did not qualify because she was not a citizen. “I walked out in tears,” said Ms. Sanchez, “and Googled how to become a U.S. citizen.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The electoral implications of the rise in citizenship applications are unclear. In states like California, which leans heavily Democratic, tens of thousands of new citizens, and newly minted voters, will not change the status quo. In other states, like Florida, many new citizens are Cubans and South Americans who tend to support the Republican Party.Mexicans make up the largest share of green card holders, and Mexican consulates have received a flood of inquiries about the implications of holding dual citizenship.“We’ve seen anti-immigrant legislation motivate eligible immigrants to naturalize before and now we’re seeing this again at both the state and national level,” said Emily Gelbaum, chief of staff of the National Partnership for New Americans.A 1994 ballot initiative in California to block undocumented immigrants from certain public services is credited with mobilizing over one million new Latino voters and moving the state to the Democratic column. Hispanic citizenship soared in the aftermath of the measure, Proposition 187.“In Texas, we’re seeing unprecedented interest in naturalization, including from green card holders who have lived in the state for decades,” Ms. Gelbaum said.But Latinos in the state, whose voting potential is often characterized as a sleeping giant, have been less politically engaged and less likely to acquire citizenship than Latinos in other states.“For a half-century we have been waiting for the moment that would galvanize Texas Latinos to seek citizenship, register to vote and storm the polls,” said Cal Jillson, a political-science professor at Southern Methodist University. “Maybe this one will do it. I’m not betting on it.”In Los Angeles, immigrants streamed into the massive hall for the naturalization ceremony, most of them dressed in formal or festive attire and accompanied by family and friends.Alejandra Ruiz, 35, who is from Mexico and applied in February, arrived with her two children and American husband, Armando. “I encouraged her to become a citizen because of all the stuff going on with politics,” Mr. Ruiz said. “She was already a resident but it felt like she wasn’t safe.”Seated in the front row was Catalina Morales, 51, with her daughter, Araceli, 26, an American who serves in the military.After 30 years as a green card holder, “she felt her residency was at risk,” Araceli Morales said of her Mexican mother. “It was mostly because of Trump.”Also there was Alma Dominguez, 43, who attended night school twice a week for three months to prepare for the civics test. “Out of all the negativity, something positive is happening,” she said, scanning the crowd of immigrants.The largest number of new citizens hailed from Mexico, the Philippines and China, but those present had come from more than 120 countries.“It’s the right time now” to become a citizen, said Mona Wattar from Lebanon, who obtained a green card 10 years ago. Ton Gao, a Chinese immigrant who donned a red polo shirt, blue training paints and white sneakers, said, “I did it for freedom.”Several rows back sat Mr. Bernal, the truck driver from El Salvador, an American flag tucked in his pocket. Hand over heart, he joined his fellow new citizens for the Pledge of Allegiance to a huge flag that hung from the ceiling.At the end of the ceremony, he collected his naturalization certificate and headed toward the exit to meet his wife, Eloisa, and children, Janie and Marcell, for a celebratory lunch.But first he stopped at a voter registration table. “I got everything done,” Mr. Bernal said. “Now I’m going to vote.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump’s incendiary words about immigration have dampened the prospects that a broad spending and immigration deal can be reached by the end of the week, raising the possibility of a government shutdown with unknown political consequences for lawmakers in both parties.Democrats facing re-election in states that Mr. Trump carried in 2016 fear that a government funding crisis, precipitated by an immigration showdown, could imperil their campaigns. And they are growing increasingly uneasy that liberal colleagues eyeing White House bids are demanding that any spending bill beyond a stopgap measure that expires on Jan. 19 include protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.“Welcome to our world,” said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who is running for re-election in a state that Mr. Trump carried by 19 percentage points.“We’ve got people running for president all trying to find their base, and then you’ve got people from Trump states that are trying to continue to legislate the way we always have — by negotiation,” Ms. McCaskill said. “And never the twain shall meet.”But Republicans face their own uncertainties. With their party controlling the White House and both chambers of Congress, they could receive most of the blame for a shutdown, even if Senate Democrats effectively block a spending plan that does not extend the immigrant protections of an Obama-era program known as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.“To believe that you can successfully blame Democrats for a shutdown over the DACA debate is naïve,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.The president on Monday attacked Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat who is leading the immigration talks for his party and attended the White House meeting, as having “totally misrepresented” Mr. Trump’s comments in his public recounting of them. And two Senate Republicans, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia, have raised questions over whether the term was even used, with Mr. Perdue flatly denying it had.Mr. Graham, who admonished Mr. Trump in the meeting, has called Mr. Durbin’s account basically accurate. He took an unmistakable swipe on Monday at Mr. Perdue and Mr. Cotton.“Since the meeting I don’t remember things differently,” Mr. Graham said. “I know what I heard, and I know what I said to the president.”Ten Democratic senators are on the ballot this November in states that are heavily white, have little sympathy for undocumented immigrants and that Mr. Trump won. Many of these lawmakers have no desire to force a government shutdown over an immigration issue. Some of the party’s most at-risk seats are in Missouri, Indiana, West Virginia and North Dakota.If they side with Senate Republicans, Congress could pass yet another short-term spending bill by Friday that would end the shutdown threat for now as negotiations continue.But some Democrats considering presidential runs, such as Senators Kamala Harris of California, Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, are pressing Democrats to oppose any government-funding bill — no matter how short-term — that does not also protect the approximately 800,000 young immigrants brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers. Mr. Trump rescinded the program in September and gave Congress six months to enshrine its protections into law.Mr. Cotton, an immigration hard-liner, suggested that these Democrats will pay a price if their brinkmanship goes too far and they are seen as shutting down the government if they cannot offer amnesty for illegal immigrants.What most alarms congressional negotiators is that political imperatives appear to have overtaken the immigration policy deliberations in the still-unfolding debate over Mr. Trump’s vulgar description in last Thursday’s meeting of some nations.Two of the Republicans involved in the discussions complained on Monday that the days-long controversy over Mr. Trump’s comment had imperiled hopes for an agreement.“I told him that the President Trump that showed up Tuesday is the one that can lead the country on multiple levels,” Mr. Graham said. “I think the president realizes that it takes a bipartisan solution. But you’re not going to get a deal by tweeting, you’re going to get one by talking.”Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, suggested that the leaks about Mr. Trump’s comments had been as detrimental as the words themselves to the cause of reaching an accord on immigration.“You have to be able to sit down and have real tough, serious conversations,” said Mr. Diaz-Balart. “And those conversations have to be kept within the folks who are negotiating.”Mr. Trump seemed to underscore Mr. Diaz-Balart’s remark when he took to Twitter on Monday to mock Mr. Durbin as “Dicky Durbin.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The president also pressed a talking point that Republicans are sure to use as the government nears its funding deadline: That the issue of the week is not as much about immigration as the continued funding of the military.Senator Dicky Durbin totally misrepresented what was said at the DACA meeting. Deals can’t get made when there is no trust! Durbin blew DACA and is hurting our Military.Both Mr. Graham and Mr. Diaz-Balart were present when Mr. Trump made the disparaging remarks about African nations, which the president now denies. But the two lawmakers were reluctant to discuss the matter, not wanting to further complicate hopes for reaching an agreement.White House officials said they remain hopeful that an immigration deal can be reached with Democrats despite what Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, called “all the noise.”“We feel like there’s still a deal to be made there,” Mr. Short said on Monday. “Things we are asking for are common sense.”Mr. Short said that the proposal offered by Mr. Graham and Mr. Durbin, which was summarily rejected by Mr. Trump during the contentious Oval Office meeting last week, remains the most likely basis for compromise as lawmakers and the White House attempt to find common ground.“It is on the table as a starting point for the congressional conversations,” Mr. Short said. He said those negotiations will begin again in earnest on Tuesday, hosted by Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, who dined with the president at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach on Sunday night.“I know what happened. I stand behind every word I said,” he said, adding that he is focused on the immigration legislation “full time.”A White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity suggested on Monday that Mr. Trump had said “shithouse countries,” not “shithole countries.” Mr. Durbin expressed disbelief that anyone would see a substantive difference between the terms.“I stick with my original interpretation. I am stunned that this is their defense,” he said.Two Republican officials independently said on Monday that Mr. Trump had said the original phrase.Mr. Short said the current proposal devised by Mr. Graham and Mr. Durbin did not do enough to satisfy the president’s demands for enhanced border security. And, he said, it failed to broadly end what Republicans call “chain migration,” a process by which American citizens can eventually bring their extended families into the United States over a period of many years.Mr. Short argued that the current proposal would actually increase the ability of DACA recipients to bring some family members into the country since, under their current legal status, they are barred from sponsoring entry for anyone else.“Their proposal only expands chain migration for that group,” he said.Under pressure from immigrant rights activists, Democrats are likely to resist broader efforts to limit immigrants from sponsoring their family members, an idea that Democrats view favorably as “family reunification” — a part of American immigration law for decades.Mr. Short also urged Democrats to put off efforts to address immigrants from Haiti, Honduras, El Salvador and other countries who have been in the United States under a program called Temporary Protected Status. The Graham-Durbin plan called for issuing new visas for those immigrants after the Trump administration said they would end T.P.S. status for people from those countries.“I don’t think we envision it as part of this deal,” Mr. Short said of the T.P.S. program. “That expands it into comprehensive immigration reform.”For Democratic lawmakers, the pressure from their left flank to demand relief for the Dreamers is only rising.“We are going to be telling Democrats the following: If you vote for a spending bill that does not include relief for Dreamers, you are voting for funds that will be used to deport Dreamers,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrants rights group.But the wisdom of eventually forcing a shutdown to shield the migrants is dividing the party.Some Democratic strategists, such as former Representative Steve Israel of New York, said Democrats should seize their leverage now that Republicans already have enough political headaches, namely the president’s historic unpopularity.“They absolutely have the upper hand as a matter of policy and as also as a matter of politics,” said Mr. Israel. “Republicans cannot afford to shut down the government in one of the roughest midterm environments they’ve ever had. Democrats have the upper hand and they should play the upper hand.”Yet to other Democrats, forcing a government shutdown in the same fashion that congressional Republicans did in President Barack Obama’s second term would be to take a considerable political risk, the legislative equivalent of the nuclear option.“It looks like a big Washington mess to people,” said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s former top strategist. “Dealing with Trump is obviously a very, very difficult issue not just for Democrats but for Republicans because he is so mercurial and unreliable. The question is: Have you reached that point now where you want to employ what is the most explosive tool in your toolbox?”Or as Ms. McCaskill put it: “I am not interested in drawing a line in sand as negotiations continue because I think that’s how negotiations get blown up.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOpinionWhen rapid immigration and terrorist attacks occur simultaneously — and the terrorists belong to the same ethnic or religious group as the new immigrants — the combination of fear and xenophobia can be dangerous and destructive. In much of Europe, fear of jihadists (who pose a genuine security threat) and animosity toward refugees (who generally do not) have been conflated in a way that allows far-right populists to seize on Islamic State attacks as a pretext to shut the doors to desperate refugees, many of whom are themselves fleeing the Islamic State, and to engage in blatant discrimination against Muslim fellow citizens.But this isn’t happening only in European countries. In recent years, anti-immigration rhetoric and nativist policies have become the new normal in liberal democracies from Europe to the United States. Legitimate debates about immigration policy and preventing extremism have been eclipsed by an obsessive focus on Muslims that paints them as an immutable civilizational enemy that is fundamentally incompatible with Western democratic values.Yet despite the breathless warnings of impending Islamic conquest sounded by alarmist writers and pandering politicians, the risk of Islamization of the West has been greatly exaggerated. Islamists are not on the verge of seizing power in any advanced Western democracy or even winning significant political influence at the polls.The same cannot be said of white nationalists, who today are on the march from Charlottesville, Va., to Dresden, Germany. As an ideology, white nationalism poses a significantly greater threat to Western democracies; its proponents and sympathizers have proved, historically and recently, that they can win a sizable share of the vote — as they did this year in France, Germany and the Netherlands — and even win power, as they have in the United States.Anti-Semitic and xenophobic movements did not disappear from Europe after the liberation of Auschwitz, just as white supremacist groups have lurked beneath the surface of American politics ever since the Emancipation Proclamation. What has changed is that these groups have now been stirred from their slumber by savvy politicians seeking to stoke anger toward immigrants, refugees and racial minorities for their own benefit. Leaders from Donald Trump to France’s Marine Le Pen have validated the worldview of these groups, implicitly or explicitly encouraging them to promote their hateful opinions openly. As a result, ideas that were once marginal have now gone mainstream.France, more than any other country, has been the source of these ideas.***As Mr. Camus explains in the book: “You have a people and then, in an instant, in one generation, you have in its place one or several other peoples.” He finds it scandalous that “a veiled woman speaking our language badly, completely ignorant of our culture” is legally considered as French as “an indigenous Frenchman passionate for Romanesque churches, and the verbal and syntactic subtleties of Montaigne and Rousseau.” In Mr. Camus’s eyes, groups like Pegida are heroic. He praises the group as a “liberation front” that is battling “a colonial conquest in progress” where white Europeans are “the colonized indigenous people.”Ms. Le Pen, the leader of France’s far-right National Front party, has a similar fear, and she sees birthright citizenship as the vehicle for replacement. Although she doesn’t use the term favored by many Republicans in the United States (“anchor babies”), she insists, as she told me in an interview last May, that “we must stop creating automatic French citizens.”This argument has a long pedigree. It can be traced back to the Dreyfus Affair, when the virulently anti-Semitic writer Maurice Barrès warned that immigrants wanted to impose their way of life on France and that it would spell the “ruin of our fatherland.” “They are in contradiction to our civilization,” Barrès wrote in 1900. He saw French identity as rooted purely in his bloodline, declaring, “I defend my cemetery.”Today’s version of the argument is: if you have foreign blood and don’t behave appropriately, then you don’t get a passport.Those who worry that a godless Europe and an immigration-friendly America are no match for Islamic extremists have ignored an even greater threat: white nationalists.Their ideology is especially dangerous because they present themselves as natives valiantly defending the homeland. Because they look and sound like most of their co-citizens, they garner sympathy from the majority in ways that Islamists never could. White nationalism is in many ways a mirror image of radical Islamism. Both share a nostalgic obsession with a purist form of identity: for one, a medieval Islamic state; for the other, a white nation unpolluted by immigrant blood.If the influence of white nationalists continues to grow, they will eventually seek to trample the rights of immigrants and minorities and dismiss courts and constitutions as anti-democratic because they don’t reflect the supposed preferences of “the people.” Their rise threatens to transform countries that we once thought of as icons of liberalism into democracies only in name.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBut it has also quietly, and with much less resistance, slowed many forms of legal immigration without the need for Congress to rescind a single visa program enshrined in the law.Immigration and State Department officials are more closely scrutinizing, and have started more frequently denying, visas for people seeking to visit the United States on business, as well as for those recruited by American companies, according to lawyers representing visa seekers. Foreigners already in the United States whose employers wish to extend their stays are also facing new hurdles.The changes show how the Trump administration has managed to carry out the least attention-grabbing, but perhaps farthest-reaching, portion of the president’s immigration plans: cutting the number of people entering the United States each year as temporary workers or permanent residents.The administration has put into practice the philosophy President Trump laid out in a pair of executive orders billed as protecting the nation from terrorism and its workers from foreign competition.But now even applicants lucky enough to be chosen are drawing more scrutiny.Officials are asking for extra details about applicants’ education and work history, the position to be filled and the employer, requiring the company to amass many additional documents, which can postpone a decision by several months.For H-1Bs, the number of such “requests for evidence” from January to August this year jumped 44 percent compared with the same period last year, according to the most recent data from United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.So far, the government is still greenlighting most H-1B applications that survive the lottery, but the approval rate is inching down.For the first two months of this fiscal year, October and November, 86 percent and 82 percent of H-1B applications were approved. That compares with 93 percent and 92 percent for the same months last year. The data does not reflect companies that give up after receiving requests for more evidence.Once a company has spent thousands of dollars in legal fees to petition for a worker, “there is huge discouragement after an R.F.E. is issued,” said Roxanne Levine, an immigration lawyer in New York, “because of the massive extra time, effort and money required to respond.”L. Francis Cissna, the immigration agency’s new director, said in an interview that if there are more requests for evidence, “that is perfectly rational and perfectly appropriate.”“We are looking at the entire program to ensure the entire thing is administered well and in conformity with congressional intent,” he said.Immigration lawyers and companies seeking the visas say that some of the decisions appear arbitrary.After responding to requests for evidence, a consulting firm that applied for an H-1B for an energy expert from Britain received a denial stating that the skills for the position “do not appear to be of such complexity, uniqueness or specialization as to require the attainment of a bachelor’s degree,” a prerequisite for the visa.Kristen Albertson, the operations manager at the firm, called the outcome “egregious.”“We apply only when it’s a strong case and essential to our business,” she said of the applicant, who is a graduate of the University of Chicago.An H-1B visa for an Indian scientist recruited by the Cleveland Clinic for his expertise in cellular biology is stuck in “administrative processing” in New Delhi, meaning it is undergoing further review that could stretch into months. “His team’s projects are now on hold due to the delay,” said Janice Bianco, an official at the Cleveland Clinic who handles applications for foreigners.She said a visa for a pediatric geneticist hired in the spring took three months to be issued — in the past, it would have taken about three weeks — forcing the hospital to reroute some patients to other facilities.The State Department, which has handled the Cleveland Clinic visa requests, said in a statement that “consular officers have the discretion to request additional screening in any case.”Mr. Eremeev drew up plans, which his lawyer in New York detailed in a 347-page visa application. He was applying for an L-1A visa, awarded to executives transferring to the United States.“Sounds and looks great, but it didn’t help me obtain a visa,” Mr. Eremeev said in a phone interview.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Among other things, the immigration agency stated that the office leased by Mr. Eremeev did not appear to be suited for a “business that would require the employment of a manager or executive.” His lawyer provided details and pictures of the space.Ultimately, the government denied the petition, stating that the “organizational structure” presented did not support the “managerial or executive position” that Mr. Eremeev was to fill.“You are going in circles,” said the lawyer, Oksana Bandrivska, “and it’s getting harder to win cases.”Russell Harrison, director of government relations for IEEE-USA, a society of technology professionals, applauded the administration’s efforts to tackle visa abuse. However, he said, a blanket approach could stifle American competitiveness.“They seem to be against anyone coming in, which is a simplistic view,” Mr. Harrison said. “There are some incredibly talented people not born in this country, and they are being treated just like other workers who are cheap.”The government’s argument, Mr. Joseph said, is that those companies are trying to import temporary workers to fill permanent jobs that should go to Americans. But he said his clients faced a shortage of local labor year after year to fill jobs in construction, lodging, landscaping and amusement parks.Other changes affect foreigners already working or living in the United States on H-1Bs or other temporary permits.Those sponsored by their employers for a green card, or legal permanent residency, must pass in-person interviews, a reversal of a 20-year-old policy that is likely to exacerbate a long backlog in green card applications. A memo from the immigration agency said the change was in line with the executive order to safeguard the nation from terrorism.The administration said this month that it planned to eliminate a program established during the Obama administration that allows international entrepreneurs to stay in the United States for up to five years. The administration also said it would eliminate a two-year-old program that granted work permits for spouses of H-1B workers. And it recently announced plans to restrict the ability of foreign students to work temporarily in the United States after they graduate.Another change affects green card holders who enlist in the military. Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, military service has provided a faster path to citizenship than applying as a civilian, typically taking just 10 weeks.In October, the Pentagon enacted new procedures that substantially slow the process by adding several layers of vetting. The change affects thousands of immigrants who have already enlisted because they cannot start training before clearing the background checks.The Pentagon said the new measures were needed to ensure that terrorists do not infiltrate the military. But Margaret Stock, an immigration lawyer and retired lieutenant colonel in the Army, said the military would suffer. “They are turning away green card holders with language, cybersecurity and other skills that the United States military needs,” she said.See More »Go to Home Page »After uproar around the world over his vulgar remarks on immigration, President Trump declared on Sunday that he is “not a racist,” and blamed Democrats for the legislative failure to protect young undocumented immigrants.WASHINGTON — After three days of denunciations from around the world, President Trump declared that he is “not a racist” on Sunday, even as the uproar over his vulgar remarks on immigration overshadowed critical issues facing the capital, including efforts to protect young undocumented immigrants and avert a government shutdown.Mr. Trump also insisted that he had not made the inflammatory comments in a White House meeting on Thursday, part of a newly aggressive defense and a counterattack on Democrats by the president and his allies. But his remarks on Sunday were a departure from the White House’s initial statement last week, which did not deny the comments.“I’m not a racist,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday night as he arrived at Trump International Golf Club in Florida for dinner with Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the majority leader, who attended the meeting last week and has not spoken publicly about it. “I am the least racist person you have ever interviewed, that I can tell you.”His comments, while extraordinary coming from a president of the United States, echoed reassurances Mr. Trump has made several times before.The senator, David Perdue of Georgia, also accused another participant in the White House meeting, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, of a “gross misrepresentation” of what the president had said at the session.Mr. Perdue and another Republican senator at the meeting, Tom Cotton of Arkansas, had previously said they did “not recall the president saying these comments specifically.” But by Sunday, their recollections appeared to have sharpened, and Mr. Cotton joined Mr. Perdue in disputing Mr. Durbin’s account. The two senators’ latest assertions also seemed to conflict with the account of another Republican senator who was at the meeting, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.Mr. Trump alluded to those two senators on Sunday night when asked about his immigration remarks. “Did you see what various senators in the room said about my comments?” the president asked. “They weren’t made.”The rift over Mr. Trump’s comments, and how they have since been recounted, risked further eroding trust between Democrats and Republicans at the beginning of a critical week for Congress. Government funding is set to expire on Friday, and lawmakers will need to pass a stopgap spending measure to avoid a government shutdown on Saturday.Reports of the president’s comments prompted outcry from some lawmakers, but they were followed by notable silence from others.And lawmakers are already facing a difficult fight over the politically volatile subject of immigration, with the fates of hundreds of thousands of young immigrants hanging in the balance. Adding to the uncertain picture for those immigrants, the Trump administration resumed accepting renewals for the program over the weekend, under orders from a federal judge who is hearing a legal challenge to Mr. Trump’s dismantling of the program.But in Congress, the battle took on an increasingly personal dimension as Mr. Perdue and Mr. Cotton essentially accused Mr. Durbin of lying about the president’s comments, even after the vulgar remarks were widely reported and the White House did not immediately dispute that the president had made them.“I didn’t hear that word either,” Mr. Cotton said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “And I was sitting no further away from Donald Trump than Dick Durbin was.”Mr. Cotton said Mr. Durbin “has a history of misrepresenting what happens in White House meetings,” an assertion that Mr. Perdue made in his own interview Sunday morning on ABC’s “This Week.”Ben Marter, a spokesman for Mr. Durbin, responded by suggesting that Mr. Perdue and Mr. Cotton should not be believed.Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who is part of a bipartisan group of senators that has developed an immigration proposal, said on Sunday that people in the room with Mr. Trump during Thursday’s meeting told him that the president had used the inflammatory language.“I was in a meeting directly afterwards where those who had presented to the president our proposal spoke about the meeting,” he said on “This Week.” “I heard that account before the account even went public.”President Trump’s approval rating fell across many demographic groups over his first year in office, including among those seen as important to his base.The other lawmakers at the meeting, all Republicans, have not offered any public recollection of what the president said.The Homeland Security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, who also attended the meeting, said on “Fox News Sunday” that she did not recall the president “saying that exact phrase.”The Obama-era program shields from deportation young immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children, known as Dreamers. Saying that President Barack Obama had exceeded his authority when he created the program, Mr. Trump moved to end it in September.He gave Congress six months to find a fix for the program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.Democrats have been pushing to secure a deal by Friday’s government funding deadline that would protect Dreamers, hoping to capitalize on the leverage they have as a result of that deadline. Democratic votes will be needed to pass the stopgap spending measure in the Senate, where government funding measures require 60 votes, and Democratic votes might also be needed in the House.Republican leaders say they want to address DACA as well, but separately from funding the government. Compared with their Democratic counterparts, Republican leaders are operating on a longer time frame for taking action, given the six-month window that Mr. Trump gave Congress. They also have to contend with internal divisions over immigration policy.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The bipartisan group of senators, including Mr. Durbin and Mr. Graham, reached an agreement last week that would provide a path to citizenship for DACA recipients while also providing money for border security and making other changes to immigration policy.“We’re ready, willing and able to make a deal on DACA, but I don’t think the Democrats want to make a deal,” Mr. Trump said. “And the folks from DACA should know the Democrats are the ones that aren’t going to make a deal.”But administration officials hope the judge’s decision will be temporary. Officials said the president’s lawyers are examining whether to appeal the order, which could lead to a ruling allowing the administration to shut the program down again. The administration could also choose to modify its legal reasoning to satisfy the judge’s criticisms.Either way, immigrant rights activists are not counting on legal action to be the ultimate protection for the Dreamers. Several said they believe the only real solution for the hundreds of thousands of young immigrants is to convince Congress to act soon.The court ruling could lessen the pressure for that kind of action — at least in the short term — since some young immigrants can once again renew their protected status for another two years.Lawyers and directors of community legal services spent Sunday preparing fact sheets and answering calls that have been flooding their offices.Most of the calls that Hasan Shafiqullah, the director of the immigration unit of the Legal Aid Society of New York, said he has been receiving started with the burning questions “Is this real? Can I file?”The answer, for now, he said, is yes. But he is concerned for his clients about another turnabout in the courts.“It’s just the emotional roller coaster that our clients are on,” he said.Thomas Kaplan and Noah Weiland reported from Washington, and Michael D. Shear from Palm Beach, Fla. Liz Robbins contributed reporting from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »Dwarf mongooses, the African social mammals that are cousins to the ever popular meerkats, are not actually people. And new research about migration from one mongoose group to another has nothing to do with the current world political situation.It’s necessary to make this point because the temptation to anthropomorphize these creatures is extreme.For instance, the basic conclusion of a recent study is that immigrants to a new mongoose group don’t contribute a lot at first, and are not given much credit when they try. But after about five months, they do just as well as any other mongoose.Stop right there. Repeat after me: Dwarf mongooses are not people. They do not live in large nations torn by political differences over how to treat their borders.They are small predators that live in groups of a dozen or less, foraging for food like scorpions and insects. They are killed and eaten by snakes and birds and bigger mammals. In any group only one dominant pair gets to reproduce. And immigration in the terms of the study consists of the movement of one mongoose from one group to another.Julie M. Kern and Andrew N. Radford at the University of Bristol study social communication and they wanted to know how new mongooses functioned as sentinels and how the information they conveyed while on sentinel duty was received by the rest of the group.So they monitored their behavior, how often they stood guard emitting a surveillance call that means, “I’m on duty here. ”New arrivals generally did less sentinel duty than long-term group members, perhaps because of the physical drain of immigration. It may take several months for a mongoose that leaves its group to find another group that will accept it.Researchers at the University of Bristol found that new arrivals to dwarf mongoose groups generally did less sentinel work than long-term group members.The researchers, or, actually the 24 research assistants that the researchers make a point of thanking in their paper in Current Biology, observed the South African mongooses and gathered data over several years. They also recorded and played back surveillance calls from different mongooses to judge how the other mongooses responded.The reaction of group members was different and changed over time. And at first foragers did not show a lot of confidence in immigrants. They would stay vigilant when foraging, looking up frequently to check their surroundings. If a known group member was sending out surveillance calls, however, foragers were more relaxed, keeping their head down.Even among well-known sentinels there were differences, Dr. Kern said. The members of the dominant pair were much more trusted than other mongooses.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.However, by the time five months had passed the immigrants were trusted just as much as any other group member.The reason that mongooses bother to switch groups, said Dr. Kern, is to get a better chance at reproduction. “If you’re quite far down the hierarchy in one group,” she said, “you may try to join a group that has fewer individuals of your sex.” Then you have a better chance of one day becoming one of the dominant pair.The biggest threat to reaching a position of dominance is predation. That is to say, being eaten before you get a chance to reproduce.The findings show that mongooses don’t just take a sentinel’s call at face value. They know who is making the surveillance signal and they consider the source. A dominant group member on duty makes them more relaxed. A new immigrant on duty is not as reassuring.The comparisons, of course, are tempting. How long before we trust the new arrivals? But, really, these are mongooses, and they are reacting to one new arrival at a time. About the only conclusion that applies to both mongooses and people is that all social animals must cope with new members joining the group. What’s at stake and how the groups deal with it depends n all sorts of factors, not least of which is the nature of the social animal.Anyone want a bite of this scorpion?A picture with an earlier version of this article was credited to the wrong photographer. It was taken by Shannon Benson, not Eric Lafforgue.See More »Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.Supported byDemocrats point to a thousand reasons that Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election. Here is another.Trump’s margins in rural and exurban counties were off the charts. For example, in Madison County, an exurban area outside Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Romney’s margin over Mr. Obama was 20.4 percentage points; Mr. Trump’s margin over Mrs. Clinton was 39.8.Plouffe added that this “happened in thousands of counties throughout the country, and it added up quickly.”As a result, Austin continues,Immigration has become an unambiguous factor in this racially charged Midwestern landscape. While immigrant-rich states like Arizona, California, and Florida are often at the center of immigration policy discussions, the political debate about the role of immigrants burns hottest in the heartland.Austin went on, in an email, to provide more detail about the power of immigration to move white voters into the Trump column:The "rural” voters here are some farmers, but more likely, as in the hinterlands outside Flint, Monroe, Toledo, Erie, or Janesville, Wisconsin, they are mostly white, working class blue collar workers or retirees, many, sadly, who fled their small cities to escape blacks. They are anxious about the economic prospects for their future, their aging communities (the kids have fled), making folks mad. And now all these immigrants come and are changing the society!! Just as Macomb County, where working class white voters fled Detroit in advance of blacks, now sees nearby communities like Hamtramck becoming (in their view) a Bangladeshi bazaar — and they don’t like that. And they are easily fanned to blame those folks.They believe that we have "opened up our borders, they pretty much made it a free for all" which means fewer jobs and greater demands on government services and more concerns about safety.Greenberg’s report is replete with revealing quotes from the focus groups:I went and finally signed up for Medicaid, and I’m standing in the damn welfare office, and I’m looking around at all of these people that can’t even say hello to me in English. But they’re all there with appointments for their workers, which means they have the health care, they have the food stamps.... If you can come from somewhere else, why can’t we all get it?And:My grandson’s school, I went to as a child, there are hardly any — I’ll just say American families there now. It’s mostly Middle Eastern and people all standing outside waiting for their kid, to pick them up at the end of the day, and nobody’s speaking English. Everyone’s speaking other languages, which, there’s nothing wrong with other languages.And:You know what, like where I’m working, at Kroger, how many Spanish people I wait on. The universal language — I don’t care, if you smile — hello, I don’t care what country you’re from, but some of these people, they act like they can’t do that, even. It’s like, "You know what? You’re in America." Get with either — you can learn to say hello, goodbye, thank you, in our language. This is America.Three developments are taking place in the rust belt simultaneously.First, as recently as 2000, many of the key Midwestern counties that moved from blue to red in 2016 had very few minority residents. Since then, their immigrant populations began to increase at a rapid rate well above the national average. Second, at the same time that immigrants are moving in, younger native-born residents are leaving in droves to seek employment elsewhere, while the remaining white population is aging and is often hostile to change. It is the perfect formula for cultural conflict, and Trump proved to be the perfect candidate to exploit it. Finally, these changes are taking place in a region that Austin points out is home to “15 of the nation’s 25 major metro areas with the sharpest black-white segregation,” making it even more unreceptive to nonwhites than other sections of the country.Arrayed on a diversity index, Michigan with an index of 42, Wisconsin at 35, Ohio at 36, and Pennsylvania at 41, all rank in the bottom twenty — i.e., the least diverse — of the fifty states. The diversity index for the entire country is substantially higher at 63. Examples of states with very high diversity indexes include California at 79; Nevada at 73; Texas at 70; and New York at 70.A rapid rate of growth in the percentage of immigrants in communities that have in the past experienced little diversity is particularly explosive.Growth in local Hispanic populations triggers threat and opposition to immigration among whites residing in contexts with few initial Hispanics, but reduces threat and opposition to immigration among whites residing in contexts with large pre-existing Hispanic populations.In other words, communities that are close to 100 percent white will react intensely to a modest increase in foreign-born residents, while highly diverse communities will shrug it off.Democratic strategists were unprepared for the depth of the upheaval that shifted the balance of power across the Rust Belt.First, the people leaving tend to be younger and more open-minded, willing to risk moving to a faster growing section of the country. Second, those left behind tend to be older, more closed-minded and more set in their ways.These “left-behind” populations tend to be older and more backward rather than future oriented — less likely to embrace the nation’s new diversity and the emerging global economy. This was surely the case among 2016 voters in rural parts of swing states that helped to elect Trump as president.Frey noted how crucial many of these declining, left-behind, nonmetropolitan communities were to Trump’s victory:In Pennsylvania, nonmetropolitan residents comprised just 12 percent of the population and 10 percent of voters, but Trump’s nonmetropolitan margin of 287,000 votes overtook Clinton’s metropolitan advantage of 243,000 votes.the depopulation makes the inflow of even modest numbers of immigrants add up to more dramatic demographic change than would be otherwise felt.Further compounding the rightward movement of these white voters is their animosity to nonwhites.In Macomb, the bellwether Midwestern county, Austin of the Michigan Economic Center found that whites in virtually all-white communities react most strongly to demographic changes taking place in close-by neighborhoods:All the recent population growth in the county — 3 percent over the past six years — has come from minorities, as the white population continues to drop. New residents include a 34 percent increase in African-Americans, a 27 percent increase in Asians, and a 14 percent increase in Latinos. And migrants from abroad account for fully 60 percent of the county’s recent population increase.Looking at the 23 small cities and towns that make up Macomb County, Austin determined that between 2012 and 2016 each one had shifted toward Republican voting, with the increase ranging from one percent to 14 percent, but that “the shift was greatest in the white enclave communities.”The consequences of neighborhood increases in foreign born and black residents can be seen in Austin’s data.In the whitest Macomb communities, averaging 3.4 percent foreign born and 4.9 percent African-American, Trump’s gains over Obama were largest, 12.4 percentage points. In the more diverse Macomb communities, close to white enclaves, 8.3 percent foreign born and 9.3 percent African-American, Trump’s gains were smaller, averaging 7.2 percentage points.When faced with a sudden, destabilizing change in local demographics, and when salient national rhetoric politicizes that demographic change, people’s views turn anti-immigrant.In an email, Hopkins elaborated on his thesis: “sudden influxes of immigrants generate hostility, likely because they destabilize long-time residents’ sense of their communities’ identity.”Looking back on the 2016 election and the importance of the immigration issue, what stands out is the failure of the Clinton campaign to address the immigration concerns of the Obama-to-Trump voters who played such a key role in the outcome. Campaign strategists may not have been aware of the intensity with which these voters viewed the issue, or they may have decided that given their target voters, the Democratic Party was not at liberty to moderate its unwavering pro-immigration stance.Hillary has been committed to the immigrant rights community throughout her career. As president, she will work to fix our broken immigration system and stay true to our fundamental American values: that we are a nation of immigrants, and we treat those who come to our country with dignity and respect — and that we embrace immigrants, not denigrate them.Eight of the nine policies described in Clinton’s statement are pro-immigration, and the ninth refers only peripherally to enforcement:Enforce immigration laws humanely. Immigration enforcement must be humane, targeted, and effective. Hillary will focus resources on detaining and deporting those individuals who pose a violent threat to public safety, and ensure refugees who seek asylum in the U.S. have a fair chance to tell their stories.The Democrats have moved from seeking to manage and champion the nation’s growing immigrant diversity to seeming to champion immigrant rights over American citizens’. Instinctively and not surprisingly, the Democrats embraced the liberal values of America’s dynamic and best-educated metropolitan areas, seeming not to respect the values or economic stress of older voters in small-town and rural America.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byLOS ANGELES — See if you can ride along with some agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement rounding up Latino immigrants, the photo editor tells the photographer. Go capture a group of brown-skinned innocents being led away in cuffs. And if one of the ICE agents is also Latino, the editor adds, so much the better.In the Trump era, such conversations are unfolding again and again in newsrooms across the United States. Our best “shooters” are sent out on a hunt for images of undocumented immigrants at perhaps the most vulnerable and degrading moment in their lives.These images have been a staple of American journalism for as long as I’ve been in the business. Very often, they seem a kind of immigration porn.When I was young and angry and saw such pictures for the first time, I confronted one of its purveyors. A photojournalist and artist had filled a San Francisco art gallery with his black-and-white images of Mexicans and others being tied up and hustled away by the Border Patrol near Tijuana. This was in the mid-1980s, long before any fence or wall was built there. The detained immigrants had the startled expressions of children caught misbehaving, or confused peasants caught up in a modern system they couldn’t hope to understand.One handcuffed woman wore a shirt that bore the words “High Life.” The photograph seemed to revel in the irony.I told the photographer I objected to the quantity and monotony of the images. They hit the same pathetic and melodramatic note over and over. To mount them on a wall and call it art was deeply offensive, I told him. Each of his subjects possessed a story and a personality he had completely overlooked.The photographer was a well-meaning liberal. My comments stunned him. He had never met a young guy with immigrant parents and a college degree telling him he’d failed to see the full humanity of his Latino subjects.Today, immigration porn is ubiquitous. You are many times more likely to see a deportee on the TV news than a Latino doctor or teacher. Images of immigrants facing deportation have accumulated in our collective national consciousness as the essence of the Latino experience.The Latino is a tragic mestizo: the illegal immigrant who will always be denied a share of the American dream; the “conflicted” immigration agent forced to round up his own people; the boy outside a federal building, tears streaming, freshly separated from his father.My objection is not to the coverage of deportations and the drama of desert border crossings. Parents are separated from their children, people are tortured by smugglers, and many die. We cannot, should not, look away.But the humiliated and hunted people you see in coverage of the deported are not the whole person. Tenacity and stubbornness are the defining qualities of undocumented America. This is precisely what is absent in the media’s depiction of the more than 11 million people who live there.“She would never embarrass her subjects,” her biographer Linda Gordon writes in “Dorothea Lange: A Life Beyond Limits.”I like to imagine Lange drifting through the barrios of California in her old Ford, loaded down with her Graflex camera. Rather than see her subjects as objects of pity “living in the shadows,” as today’s liberal malarkey has it, she would immerse herself in their lives.She might encounter a Mexican immigrant sitting on his porch in Los Angeles, weary from his day’s labors. I see her taking a step back and observing him lost in thought as he watches his children play in the front yard.In the face and gestures of that copper-skinned man, her photograph would depict the ineffable qualities of the immigrant present: weariness and hopefulness, uncertainty and pride. His dignity and his burdens would be plain to see, but perhaps also a certain raffish quality — the lively brown eyes of a man who has found his way through adversity with wit and wiles.That is the true image of undocumented America. Not immigrant porn, but something infinitely more interesting. Art. The beauty and complexity of the lives of working people seen as they truly are.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — The White House on Friday presented Congress with an expansive list of hard-line immigration measures, including an $18 billion request to build a wall at the Mexican border, that President Trump is demanding in exchange for protecting young undocumented immigrants.The request, which totals $33 billion over a period of 10 years for border security measures including the wall, could jeopardize bipartisan talks aimed at getting an immigration deal. Among the items on Mr. Trump’s immigration wish-list: money to hire 10,000 additional immigration officers, tougher laws for those seeking asylum, and denial of federal grants to so-called “sanctuary cities.”The list, delivered to Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who has been leading the talks related to young immigrants without documentation, is identical to one Democrats declared a nonstarter when the White House issued it in October.“President Trump has said he may need a good government shutdown to get his wall,” a furious Mr. Durbin said in an emailed statement Friday afternoon. “With this demand, he seems to be heading in that direction.”The senator went on: “It’s outrageous that the White House would undercut months of bipartisan efforts by again trying to put its entire wish-list of hard-line anti-immigrant bills — plus an additional $18 billion in wall funding — on the backs of these young people.”An estimated 780,000 young people brought to this country illegally were shielded from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program, a program instituted by former President Barack Obama in 2012. But in September, Mr. Trump rescinded the program, known by its acronym, DACA, and gave Congress six months to come up with a replacement.Since then, immigration advocates say, 14,000 young people have lost their protected status because they could not renew two-year work permits issued under the program.Mr. Durbin and four other senators — including three Republicans — have been meeting nearly every day for the past two months to negotiate a deal that would protect the DACA recipients while beefing up border security, a key Republican demand. Senators said they were making progress but were stalled while awaiting a “punch list” from the White House that would set forth the president’s conditions.But part of the discussions were also expected to center on how to reach an accord with Democrats over protections for the undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, those known as Dreamers, as well as how to fund a major children’s health care program that is in danger of running out of funds. The president met with Republicans at the White House on Wednesday, but the meetings at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, are designed to come up with a clearer strategic approach.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.If they cannot reach a deal, the government could be forced into a partial shutdown almost a year to the day after Mr. Trump was sworn into office.How Mr. Trump works with Congress over these critical domestic issues will set a tone for his second year in office, and could shape the 2018 midterm election landscape. Republicans are deeply concerned that their majorities in the House and Senate may be in jeopardy.After the Friday meeting, the White House described the session as “productive” about matters of economic and national security.This week, the president expressed some hope that he could reach a deal with Democrats over the Obama-era immigration initiative, which allowed immigrants illegally brought to the United States as children to be shielded from deportation and to receive temporary, renewable work permits.Mr. Trump said then that, in addition to the wall, he wanted to limit family-based migration, which critics call “chain migration,” that allows relatives to sponsor family members to come to the United States. And he wants to do away with the diversity visa lottery, a State Department program that admits immigrants from countries that do not send many people to the United States.“We’d love to take care of DACA,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday, “but we’re only going to do it under these conditions.”In a Twitter message on Tuesday, the president accused Democrats of “doing nothing for DACA” and being interested only in politics.Democrats are doing nothing for DACA - just interested in politics. DACA activists and Hispanics will go hard against Dems, will start “falling in love” with Republicans and their President! We are about RESULTS.Whether that approach will bring along dubious Democrats is not certain, but it is clear that DACA is only one piece of a larger puzzle.While many Democrats support ending the visa program and stiffening border and interior enforcement, it is not clear whether they will back the measures that Republicans demand to limit what they call “chain migration,” allowing immigrants to sponsor family members once they gain legal status.“Nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to,” Ms. Pelosi said in an interview on Tuesday.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorial ObserverNEW HAVEN — Across two decades as an immigration lawyer practicing the quieter arts of saving clients from federal deportation, Glenn Formica never thought highly of the tactic of seeking refuge in a church, where law enforcement is hesitant to intrude. He was skeptical of the sanctuary approach, and the ephemeral hopes he thought it generated in trying to shield undocumented immigrants in dramatic standoffs with authorities.“What? Blowing raspberries at ICE?” Mr. Formica said, explaining that he preferred his proven method of privately negotiating with the agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement to build halfway effective relationships. Working the bureaucratic ropes, he secured repeated reprieves for unthreatening clients he served pro bono like Nury Chavarria. He rates the undocumented 43-year-old as trustworthy as any salt-of-the-earth American, but she came here illegally 24 years ago from Guatemala.Ms. Chavarria has since raised four children as a single mother — a shadowy noncriminal noncitizen who pays taxes and cleans houses for a living. She received serial notices of deportation over the years, but Mr. Formica always secured reprieves from considerate ICE officers previously allowed to stamp her case “Not an enforcement priority.”But then Ms. Chavarria sensed a new and terrifying urgency last month in a deportation notice from the Trump administration. She shocked her lawyer by darting into the Iglesia de Dios Pentecostal here in search of sanctuary. She doubted Mr. Formica could prevail this time against President Trump’s nonstop rants about evil immigrants and his order broadening the power of ICE agents to focus on even stable, crime-free strivers like Ms. Chavarria for deportation.Her cry for church sanctuary from government pursuit, a historical protection going back to medieval times, prompted instant headlines. TV crews surrounded the church on her July 20 deportation deadline; the state and city’s political hierarchy gathered inside to support Ms. Chavarria as she clung to her marginal place in America.“I was furious,” Mr. Formica said of the sanctuary display. “I stormed into the church, profane and boorish, worrying how I’d ever get my client out of there past what I thought were crazy radicals.”But then he slowed down, surveyed the scene and had to rethink the meaning of sanctuary. “It was Birkenstock grandmas, local church leaders, the governor and congressional delegation,” he said. And impassioned citizens, including a jaded Trump supporter who said he had come because he was friends with undocumented immigrants in the restaurant business.Mr. Formica warily approached one community organizer, Kica Matos, a local firebrand in life’s various causes all the way to death row appeals. “For me, it was like meeting an extraterrestrial,” said the buttoned-down lawyer. “But then,” he conceded, “I found she knew what she was doing.”“I did a 180 on sanctuary right there,” Mr. Formica said. “I never thought in 20 years I’d ever see such an outpouring of support for one of my clients.” He thinks he overlooked early warnings when ICE agents he knew and trusted never dared return his phone calls as Ms. Chavarria’s deportation date approached.His brush with sanctuary convinced him that a new regime is enforcing the Trump doctrine with a vengeance. “It’s ICE unchained, a rabid dog now, no limit in sight,” the lawyer summarized, sounding more sad than radicalized.Powered by the church rally, Mr. Formica and others raced around to have Ms. Chavarria spared immediate deportation through an emergency stay from immigration court. She has left the church while her case is argued, but she is considered an “ICE fugitive” by the government, a higher-priority category for eventual deportation. Mr. Formica knows he must fight for her further and harder than ever. He tapped New Haven’s history as a sanctuary city by calling his friend Mike Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School. He pleaded for a corps of sharp students for fast help in drafting what will be a complicated legal case.“In four days, they turned around what I needed,” Mr. Formica said, back from the iglesia and sounding more secure in his own sanctuary, the law. “I had thought this would be another happy ending,” he said, facing a larger court fight. “Little did I know.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe bulk of Ahmed’s research comes from a listening tour he embarked on with a team of researchers between 2013 and 2017. They interviewed imams, community leaders, activists and ordinary people across the continent about the challenges European Muslims face today. Their findings are predictably grim. Across the board, interviewees reported feeling marginalized, stereotyped and prevented from professional advancement because of their background. Despite their multitude of experiences, they ended up lumped into the crude categories that conflate terrorists, Muslims and refugees; Arabs, Persians and Africans; recent immigrants with no facility in the local language and second-generation doctoral students fluent at the highest level. “We are in a cosmic depression,” a British psychologist laments.Many patterns of discrimination, Ahmed notes, are rooted in colonial legacies that vary by country; in his assessment, Pakistanis in Britain are better integrated than, say, French citizens of Algerian and Moroccan descent. But even absent empire, many of the Muslims he speaks to find it hard, if not impossible, to fit in. “In Denmark they strangle you slowly, slowly,” one interviewee proclaims.Ahmed also documents how Muslim communities end up reinforcing negative stereotypes. Refugees bring with them sectarian and ethnic rivalries that make little sense in Europe. Ahmed’s own team of researchers was chased away from a mosque in Bradford, England, by a group of aggressive teenagers. What happened there “captures the current predicament of contemporary European Muslim society: angry and noisy young Muslims, unresolved issues concerning immigration, frequent violence and terrorism, often inspired by ISIS, the rise of the far right and its dangerous rhetoric of religious hatred and rampant Islamophobia.”Ahmed spends little time analyzing the role of economics in promulgating these xenophobic sentiments. Nor does he compare Muslims’ fates with the predicament of other migrants — Polish workers in England were, after all, a major target of Brexiteers — or the situation of Christians in the Middle East. His study is more ethnographic than political. We learn from the experiences of living, breathing people. Ahmed also reminds us of the considerable philosophical, scientific and cultural gifts that Muslims gave Europe throughout the ages.Ahmed frames tribal identity — whether Norwegian or Bedouin — as a political conundrum: “how to remain strong in your own identity without transgressing onto that of others.” Too much can lead to predatory chauvinism; too little can bring about a loss of self, a “dangerous vacuum where … identity should have been.” This point is fundamental to his analysis. Rather than diagnosing tensions between Muslims and white Europeans as an innate clash of cultures, Ahmed blames a loosening of identities — religious, national, tribal and cultural — on all sides that’s further exacerbated by globalization.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At the same time, Ahmed makes efforts not to succumb to what he calls “Andalusian syndrome,” or “a nostalgia felt too deep for words about a beloved civilization in the past that haunts the imagination” (afflicted parties include everyone from Prince Turki of Saudi Arabia to the Marxist theorist Tariq Ali). This period was hardly utopian, and Ahmed characterizes popular accounts of it — in the works of Salman Rushdie, notably — as excessively rosy. Ahmed also concedes that the old version of Andalusia is “dated, impractical and has little legitimacy” today. But his yearning for a better way, and his conviction that a “New Andalusia” can exist, carries the reader through some 500 pages.The fundamental message of “Journey Into Europe” is that throughout history, Islamic and European civilizations have often been not just compatible, but complementary. It’s crucial to acknowledge their shared past to reject today’s resurgent tribalism. The stakes, as Ahmed puts it, are “Andalusia or dystopia.”Atossa Araxia Abrahamian is a journalist and the author of “The Cosmopolites: The Coming of the Global Citizen.”See More »We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »Good morning.Democrats, the ad stated, are “complicit in every murder committed by illegal immigrants.”It is a country, he said, “teeming with people of all kinds living in harmony and peace.”Mr. Mayes, from Yucca Valley, grew up the poor son of a preacher and has taken moderate positions on a number of issues, including immigration, climate change and poverty. In an effort to rebrand his own party, Mr. Mayes recently founded New Way California, which put out the Reagan ad and has drawn the support of the former governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.When he was his party’s leader in the State Assembly, polling he conducted showed that many Californians, “didn’t think we cared about people,” he said. “They thought we were caustic and abrasive,” he added, and only looked out for, “rich white people.”Mr. Mayes said his organization is not explicitly anti-Trump. But he said that for Republicans in California to become relevant again, they must have a different message than the party has nationally. “Contempt for fellow man,” he said, is not a winning political strategy in California.He continued, “I’m a white guy. We are not the majority in California. The Republican Party cannot be the party of white people.”The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)On Wednesday, Amanda Gorman, the first national youth poet laureate, paid a visit to the offices of The Times in New York. Ms. Gorman, a 19-year-old Los Angeles native and Harvard sophomore, was chosen for the poet laureate role last year. She answered a few questions and left us with a poem about the city.Tell us about growing up in L.A.From a young age, I was exposed to a beautiful plethora of different cultures, languages and ideas, which inspires me to highlight untold stories in my poetry.What are your favorite spots in Los Angeles?Do you miss it? Do you think you’ll return to live there?Absolutely, I miss California every day. In fact, I started doing something new. When it’s warm enough, I go down to the Charles River and pretend that it’s the Pacific Ocean so I can write. I tried doing this when it was snowing, and I almost gave myself the flu.And here’s Ms. Gorman’s poem:Daughter’s Metro Map to City IdentityOn Slauson I straddle Black girl tangobetween northern heightsand south hair salonsHome.Here I am diamondsolitary treasureon Western I am unclaimed Christianscribbling homilies on spinesof wrinkled church fanshere I am veteranclutching cement scarI am bandage sticking to sidewalkOn Centinela I vibrate the highestI am journal of streetshymnal of homeless, homeboundimpoverished and importantCalifornia Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOn CampusThis month my father and I drove to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services office in Centennial, Colo., for a routine visit. I offered to drive because my dad was too nervous and excited to take the wheel. “How long have we waited for this day?” he asked me. He had been told to come in for a final interview before he could get approved for legal permanent residency.My father is undocumented but has lived in the United States since 1998. He has raised four children, all American citizens, on income from construction work. He pays his taxes and plays by the rules. He himself has been a perfect citizen — although, of course, he can’t call himself that.Regardless of his status, he has earned the right to work hard without the constant anxiety of being apprehended. His children — of whom I am the oldest — deserve that peace of mind too.Most people can’t wait to turn 21 so that they can drink. For me, it was the day I could finally petition the government to change my dad’s immigration status. I filed the paperwork in February and believed it would be the beginning of sleeping easier at night, of not worrying about “la migra” every time the phone rang.Eight months later, my father and I showed up at the immigration services office with our lawyer and notebooks full of supporting documents. The officer told us our petition should be approved, but not that day. We took this as an indication of another waiting period, but we remained upbeat: The officer told my father how to learn about his rights as a lawful permanent resident and acknowledged that he had paid the appropriate fees.After the officer left the room several times, something changed in her demeanor, and the air in the room became thick with mounting uncertainty. She asked me to leave. I didn’t want to, so she turned to my father and asked him to tell me to leave. I told myself I was just being paranoid and walked outside. As I waited, three Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents came in and took custody of my dad.When our lawyer reappeared, the look on his face told me everything I needed to know. The world felt ripped from under my feet.My dad wanted to follow the rules. He has been trying to adjust his status with the help of relatives since 2001. We filed the correct paperwork, paid the fees and lined up all his references, only for my dad to be dragged out of a little office and locked up. ICE could have chosen to grant my dad his residency, per the suggestion of our immigration officer. Instead, my father, a man who has filed his taxes every year, has no criminal record and is the sole provider for four children, wasn’t even put out on monitor or bond. He is still being held in a detention center in Aurora, Colo., and is awaiting deportation proceedings unless ICE grants him the cancellation of his removal.It feels like a sick joke that at Yale University, where I’m a senior, I am majoring in ethnicity, race and migration. I have spent hours discussing, studying and reimagining fairer immigration policies. But none of that, none of my hard work, is good enough. It won’t release my dad.What happened to him is not an appropriate application of the law — it is cruelty. It’s not just my dad’s story. Under President Trump, every undocumented person living in the United States is a target, a deportation priority. This is a grave national security mistake. As this administration creates more distrust and fear in our communities, it is not encouraging people to be honest with law enforcement agents. Undocumented people want to cooperate with the law, but there is no path for them to do so without jeopardy of detainment or removal.So many families like mine are threatened by a deeply flawed immigration system in the United States, which is basically enforced in an ad hoc manner. If upholding the law is important, pulling families apart is no way to do it.Viviana Andazola Marquez is a senior at Yale.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSGood evening. Here’s the latest.The coach, Aaron Feiss, had himself graduated from the school.“I don’t know when Aaron’s funeral is,” the Broward County sheriff said. “I don’t know how many adults are going to go, but you’ll get 2,000 kids there.”____The leader of a white supremacist group in Florida said Mr. Cruz was a member of his group and had participated in paramilitary drills.____It was a shift from his early-morning tweet, which some saw as victim-blaming:“So many signs that the Florida shooter was mentally disturbed, even expelled from school for bad and erratic behavior. Neighbors and classmates knew he was a big problem. Must always report such instances to authorities, again and again!”____4. No deal.The Senate also rejected two more modest measures. “What happens now,” our correspondent writes, “is unclear.”____The group also paid $26 million to a firm started by a senior adviser to the first lady, Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, above, for event planning.________________Habitat loss was identified as a main cause, but hunting of the endangered animals appears to be surprisingly common. The team observed 36,555 nests and estimated a loss of 148,500 orangutans during that period.“Worryingly, however, the largest number of orangutans were lost from areas that remained forested during the study period,” a researcher said. “This implies a large role of killing.”____Have a wonderful night.Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.See More »Go to Home Page »In the mid-1890s, the German sociologist Max Weber warned against “the continual swarm” of cheap Polish laborers arriving in Germany. According to him, a “free market policy, including open borders in the east, is the worst possible policy at this point.” And not just for economic reasons. The likely integration of these aliens would threaten the “social unification of the nation, which has been split apart by modern economic development.” For Weber, a German nationalist, the “influx of Poles” was “far more dangerous from a cultural viewpoint” than even of Chinese “coolies.”Compared with Weber’s rhetoric about Germany’s “struggle for existence” and his strictures against Catholics and Jews as well as Poles and Chinese, there is nothing overtly racist about the denunciations Rita Chin quotes in “The Crisis of Multiculturalism in Europe” by opponents of multiculturalism — which for them is shorthand for the nonwhite laborers Europe expediently imported after World War II to reconstruct its shattered economy. The political scientist Samuel Huntington’s comment that “multiculturalism is in its essence anti-European civilization” — approvingly cited by Douglas Murray in “The Strange Death of Europe” — also seems coded in comparison. But as demagogues across Europe and America rant against immigration and promise to build a strong and unified national community through exclusion, it is hard not to feel déjà vu.Racial nationalism was commonplace in the late 19th century, the radically disruptive first phase of economic globalization. Hierarchies of race, ethnicity and religion were imposed on non-Western peoples as Europeans scrambled for territories and resources abroad, followed enviously by Americans. Exclusion was also central to their frantic effort to build political communities at home. Old bonds and solidarities had frayed in societies split apart, as Weber wrote, by modern economic development. Many of the aggrieved became eager to recreate and purify the social body, and to preserve “our” identity against people stigmatized as the “other” through their names, skin color or religious practices. Mass immigration to Western Europe and America, which peaked in the late 19th century, heightened the fantasy of a lost communal wholeness. So did unregulated flows of refugees: Pogroms in Russia sent thousands of Jewish survivors to Western Europe. (Weber’s warnings against the Polish “swarm” reflected a then widespread anxiety about Ostjuden.)Virulent anti-Semites flourished in Austria-Hungary, Germany and France as the 19th century ended, while lynchings of blacks by white mobs in the United States became more common. The United States in the 1880s had pioneered racialized immigration policy, passing laws aimed at keeping Asians out. The Jim Crow laws that institutionalized segregation in the 1890s were accompanied by a mass hysteria in the United States against immigrants. Fears of degeneration haunted even powerful white men like Theodore Roosevelt. In 1905, amid widespread paranoia about the Yellow Peril, he warned of “race suicide,” exhorting white people to strengthen themselves against their rising nonwhite rivals.Needless to say, Murray’s threnody for Europe is as fundamentally incoherent as its late-19th-century originals. It never strikes him, or other secondhand vendors of fixed and singular identities, that nowhere in the world have individuals been the exclusive heirs of a single culture or civilization. Europe as well as America has been a melting pot of diverse influences: Persian, Arab and Chinese, in addition to Greek, Roman, Germanic and Anglo-Saxon. As the Indian writer Rabindranath Tagore, a horrified witness to Europe’s suicidal nationalism in the early 20th century, once wrote: “In human beings differences are not like the physical barriers of mountains, fixed forever — they are fluid with life’s flow, they are changing their courses and their shapes and their volumes,” in what is a “world-game of infinite permutations and combinations.”Murray’s retro claims of ethnic-religious community, and fears of contamination, call for close analysis. Their toxic effects, which have been amply verified by history, make it imperative to explore the deeper sources of contemporary anxieties: political, social and economic upheavals. And this is what Rita Chin’s book does, synthesizing the endless debates over multiculturalism into a vivid picture of postwar Europe. Lucidly written and resourcefully argued, it is a superb example of a scholarly intervention in a public debate dominated by unexamined prejudice.Chin’s parents were ethnic Chinese forced to leave Malaysia after the end of British rule and to move through many “different cultural worlds as students, employees, colleagues, neighbors, friends and in-laws.” She wishes her reader to understand the multiple and perennially shifting identities of immigrants “in a world where much of the political discourse is quick to demonize them as groups.” Accordingly, she declines to accept identities — British, German or European — as unalterable essences. Rather, she explores the specific ideas that many in post-1945 British, French, Dutch and German societies have used to clarify their identity; and she never ceases to historicize what to a tub-thumper like Murray seems self-evident.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The very notion of Europe, for instance, began to emerge out of European encounters with Muslim populations during the Crusades. European self-consciousness was then sharply demarcated in remote trading posts and colonies vis-à-vis subjugated and supposedly racially inferior peoples. But, as Chin writes, the “reversal of migratory patterns” after World War II “shifted the process of European self-definition in a dramatic way”: “Instead of Europeans moving outward into the world as they had done for hundreds of years, people from around the world began to settle in Europe, filling the demand for labor created by wartime destruction.”For Chin, an associate professor of history at the University of Michigan, this is the crux of the problem: “In the past, groups perceived as incompatible with European identity were usually located beyond European borders. But now they are firmly established within Europe itself.” In the 19th century, nation-states premised on homogeneous populations needed foreign lands and resources in order to expand; and they had the brute power necessary to enforce hierarchies of race, class and education that kept the “natives” in their place. This supremacy has been progressively weakened, first by the urgencies of postwar reconstruction, then by the accelerated flows of technologies, goods and capital in recent decades of globalization.Chin pays little attention to the socioeconomic traumas that have led to an acute obsession with immigration: deindustrialization, the shrinking of the welfare state, the fragmentation of working classes and the rise of extreme inequality. Nor does she go into a pre-1945 history of immigration in Europe, and the projection of internal problems on to various “outsiders” — Jewish, Italian, Portuguese, Irish, Polish. But she is consistently acute on how European elites since 1945 have reacted to the darker-skinned strangers in their midst, ignoring, misrepresenting and marginalizing them at first, and then turning them into a problem, often broadly identified as “multiculturalism.”Multiculturalism, in Chin’s account, appears largely to be a problem for people who have long been accustomed to an identity built on domination and exclusion, and are panicked by its slow crumbling. Certainly, immigration was not a problem foisted on Europe from the outside; the fates of Europeans and non-Europeans were inextricably connected in the 19th century by conquest, colonization and trade. Yet historical amnesia played an outsize role in dealing with nonwhite workers who were never expected to stay in Europe, let alone integrate or assimilate. Chin describes how people from the Caribbean who began to arrive in Britain after 1948, for instance, were seen as “colored immigrants” when in fact they were British citizens. An unreconstructed racism (exemplified by the commonplace sign “no dogs, no blacks, no Irish”) remained for many years the appalling fate of people who had shaped, like millions of toiling workers and peasants in the imperial provinces, the privileged destiny of the rich in the metropolitan center.A backlash against multiculturalism began to gather force after the economic crises of the 1970s. The controversy over Salman Rushdie’s “The Satanic Verses” accelerated it. Black people had long been seen as culturally predisposed to crime and hooliganism. But after the Ayatollah Khomeini, wrongly identified by the uninformed as the sole representative of more than one billion Muslims, issued his fatwa against Rushdie, Islam began to seem incompatible with “Western values” too. Diversity has come to seem unworkable to many as the unequal world made by imperialism unravels, and Europe suffers terrorist attacks, economic crises and huge influxes of refugees from the countries it once brusquely made and remade in Asia and Africa. Chin vigorously tackles the “shared presumption,” recklessly echoed by even mainstream politicians in Britain, France and Germany, that multiculturalism is a failure. “Declaring multiculturalism ‘dead,’” Chin argues, “is a way of white Britons, Germans and French telling immigrants, ‘We don’t recognize you; you aren’t a part of our society.’”Surely, the many populations that now exist in every part of Europe cannot be homogenized, except through the savage ethnic cleansing practiced in almost every European country in the first half of the 20th century. In any case, as Chin asks, “what exactly do Europeans imagine as a replacement for multiculturalism? How will they come to terms with multiethnic diversity moving forward?” Chin offers no simple answers, but her questions have never seemed more urgent as Europeans (and Americans) seem to move forward to their grim past.Pankaj Mishra is the author, most recently, of “Age of Anger: A History of the Present.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is stepping up its pursuit of parents who paid to have their children illegally brought into the United States, according to people familiar with the matter. The effort, part of a widening crackdown on illegal immigration, is aimed at discouraging families from paying human smuggling organizations.As part of a new round of immigration sweeps, officials are targeting parents or other relatives who were deported, re-entered the United States and then had their children smuggled across the border. Legal experts say cases of illegal re-entry are faster and easier to prove than a smuggling charge.Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said it was common for parents or family members in the United States to make illegal payments to smugglers to arrange for children to be brought to the border, where they turn themselves in and are often eventually handed over to their relatives. Tens of thousands of women and children have arrived at the border in the last three years, beginning with a surge of arrivals in the summer of 2014, many seeking refuge from gang violence and extreme poverty in Central America.It was not clear how many people would be affected by the effort to arrest and prosecute family members for illegal re-entry, but officials familiar with the plan said it would serve as a deterrent to stop other parents and relatives from paying to have children brought to the United States as unaccompanied minors. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss enforcement policies publicly.ICE officials said they had arrested hundreds of people for smuggling children and referred dozens of cases to the Justice Department for prosecution, including many for illegally re-entering the country and then paying to have children smuggled across the border.“The risks associated with smuggling children into the U.S. present a constant humanitarian threat,” ICE officials said in a statement. “The sponsors who have placed children directly into harm’s way by entrusting them to violent criminal organizations will be held accountable for their role in these conspiracies.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some children reported being raped or held hostage by smugglers for more money. Others have been abandoned by smugglers as they try to cross the border.Immigration advocates called the new enforcement policy a heartless way to try to reduce smuggling.“It's extremely cruel when you started shutting down refugee applicants and rescinding protections for children brought to the country at a young age, to send this kind of message to parents trying to get their kids to safety,” said Chris Rickerd, policy counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union in Washington.Smuggling cases are among the most challenging to prove, and the biggest hurdle is identifying witnesses, who are likely to be undocumented and unwilling to help, according to Michael J. Wynne, who spent 12 years as an assistant United States attorney in the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas. Targeting parents for re-entering the country illegally, rather than trying to go after them for smuggling, presents prosecutors with a higher likelihood of success.“It’s a throwdown case,” he said. “You’re going to prosecute the crime where you get the biggest bang for your buck.”Officials in ICE’s Homeland Security Investigations division have been told to look for cases that can be brought to United States attorneys for possible prosecution, according to people familiar with the enforcement effort. Because prosecutions for illegal re-entry carry a five-year statute of limitations, ICE special agents are also looking to see if they can prosecute relatives of unaccompanied children for other immigration-related crimes, such as giving false statements, according to people familiar with the effort.Convictions for illegal re-entry are politically popular among immigration restrictionists.According to Justice Department data analyzed by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a nonprofit research group at Syracuse University, illegal re-entry made up the bulk of prosecutions for illegal immigration for the last five years.The Trump administration has made no secret of its plans to go after parents living in the country illegally who bring in their children.Earlier this year, administration officials said that the thousands of children who arrived each year as unaccompanied minors would no longer be protected against deportation, reversing an Obama administration policy. John F. Kelly, then the Homeland Security secretary and now the White House chief of staff, wrote a memo in February saying parents would be subject to criminal prosecution if they had paid human traffickers to bring children across the border.The children, who turn themselves in to the Border Patrol, are handed over to the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Resettlement. The office will either place the children in a shelter or release them to a family member. Immigration officials said most of the unaccompanied children apprehended at the border were eventually turned over to a family member, most often a parent, already living in the United States.Homeland Security officials acknowledge that many of the children are fleeing violence in their home country, but they say that paying smugglers to transport them to the border endangers the children.Interviews with immigration officials and court documents show numerous examples of children being exploited by smuggling organizations. Mexican authorities reported in July that they had rescued 147 Central American migrants, including 48 children, found abandoned in the wilderness in Veracruz State after a truck carrying them crashed.And officials said that some of the money paid to smugglers found its way into the hands of drug cartels. In recent years, drug smuggling organizations have diversified their activities and now get a substantial portion of their revenue from human smuggling, officials said.The drug trafficking organizations charge smugglers to cross through their territory. In some cases, the cartels abduct the migrants and hold them for ransom from parents in the United States or family back home.If the money is not paid on time, the migrants, including children, are beaten or even killed, according to Border Patrol agents and Homeland Security Investigations officials who have investigated the cases. Two weeks ago, prosecutors in McAllen, Tex., sentenced the leader of one group to more than 30 years in prison for abducting a group of people who were in the country illegally and were being held at a stash house. The group was held at gunpoint, and their families were told to pay $2,000 to free them. After the families paid, the group was then turned over to other smugglers, who also demanded money for their release.Even those who make it across the border face dangers, officials said.In July, the police in San Antonio, responding to a call from a local Walmart, found dozens of undocumented immigrants inside a semitrailer parked in heat of more than 100 degrees. Ten of the 39 people found in or near the truck died, and others were hospitalized, some with brain damage. Among those found alive in the truck were two school-age children.See More »Go to Home Page »Ride-alongs have long been a journalistic staple, providing a chance to see law enforcement officials “in action.” We’ve been on several, including with the New York and Los Angeles police departments. There is a certain kind of theater to them; officers know that every word they say is being recorded and rarely let their guard down. Although we knew we might get a slightly sanitized version of ICE’s work, this was a nearly unprecedented opportunity to see it.Descending on loved ones while their pain was fresh felt intrusive. Yet an essential part of our work is explaining the complicated reality of enforcement — we wanted to see who the families were and how they think of themselves and la migra, as ICE is referred to by many Spanish speakers. Meeting them would help us give readers a more nuanced understanding of how one arrest can affect several people — not just the pain they felt, but the financial ruin some feared because the main breadwinner had been taken away.Of the families of the five people the agents arrested, just two were willing to speak with us. At the home of Fidel Delgado, his bewildered wife, Maria Rocha, seemed comforted that one of us was a Spanish speaker who identified as a reporter and was interested in telling their story. Tearful, their 21-year-old daughter, Ana, blurted out in English, “What are we going to do?” And after Anselmo Morán Lucero was apprehended, his wife looked for advice we as journalists could not give. “Should we hire a lawyer,” she asked, “even though the agent told me not to, saying he will be deported anyway?”David Marin, the supervising officer who served as our guide, was more than willing to offer his opinions. Even before sunrise, he spoke at length about the way many of his officers feel vilified in Southern California, one of the country’s most immigrant-friendly regions. “We’re not evil,” Mr. Marin said, a sentiment he would repeat throughout the morning.He spoke of his frustration under the Obama administration, when he said that just a year ago officers were hamstrung from doing the kind of enforcement they signed on to do.Watching the agents in action showed just how much latitude the officers now have. During one arrest, the officers debated whether they should take in a husband and wife together, leaving their U.S.-born teenage son in protective services. “You know what you’re doing,” Mr. Marin told the officers. “This is your call.”Each man was shackled and led into an unmarked van with blacked-out windows. The van followed the officers for a few hours, as they made several other arrests before ending up at a processing center.The two whose families had spoken to us earlier agreed to be interviewed. Another began to talk, but stopped when an officer said he would need to sign a form legally consenting to the interview. “I don’t want them to use this against me,” he said.We explained to them there that we were not working with the agents, and that they could decide what information could be made public, but we could not promise them more than that. As they tried to understand the implications — will they have to leave the United States? — nobody could tell them anything for certain.See More »Go to Home Page »A Flatiron district artificial intelligence start-up was recently looking to expand, adding new engineers who happened to know a niche computer language.The people it hired hail from Morocco, Belarus, France, Georgia and Canada. But they are not working in New York. They are in Montreal, where immigration policies make it possible to get work permits within two weeks, and the Canadian tech industry is aggressively trying to woo foreign companies.While much attention has been paid to President Trump’s policies cracking down on illegal immigration, the administration has also moved to restrict legal immigration, especially in the tech industry, which draws many workers from abroad. In April, Mr. Trump introduced an executive order, Buy American and Hire American, which included requests to reform a visa program known as H-1B as a way to benefit American workers.The program awards 85,000 temporary visas annually to highly skilled foreign workers in what are deemed “specialty” occupations through a lottery. Between application and legal fees, the process of applying for one H-1B visa can cost a company up to $6,000, lawyers say, and can take months; it is also as uncertain as roulette, with hundreds of thousands of applicants for the spots.Last week, the Department of Homeland Security published a set of proposed rule changes that would make the visas even harder to qualify for, to ensure that only “the best and brightest” foreign workers were selected. It also hoped to eliminate a work permit for spouses of some of these visa holders.In 2017, the organization conducted eight international recruiting missions, in London, Paris, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Its directors have made several informal visits to New York, where it came this month to woo a video game company.Last year, trueEx’s chief executive and president, Karen O’Connor, was looking at options to expand the company’s computer engineer group. A consortium related to Montreal International invited her to Canada for a visit that made her feel like a foreign dignitary, she said. There was the elegant lunch, the precisely coordinated meetings with potential business partners and a visit to the Montreal Stock Exchange.Ms. O’Connor said the 50-person company could save more than $1 million in wages if it hired engineers based in Montreal. In part, that was because the cost of living was far less compared with New York and because the company could qualify for certain tax benefits.But after Mr. Trump was elected, trueEx hesitated, to gauge the climate; now, it is again considering expanding north of the border in 2018, Ms. O’Connor said, in part because it got a spot site visit from the Department of Homeland Security this summer to verify employment records for its H-1B visa holders. They were in order, but the company’s executives found the process nerve-racking.“My advice to other companies would be: Hold on for dear life, but explore other options,” Mr. Hirani said.But John Miano, a lawyer who represents American workers who say that they have lost jobs unfairly to low-skilled H-1B visa holders, thought it was “posturing” for companies to say they are moving north of the border to find the best talent. “The problem is, you got to go to Canada,” Mr. Miano said. “The reality is, the place to do business is still the United States.”Datalogue’s expansion to Montreal, Mr. Delisle’s hometown, evolved swiftly. He and a partner founded Datalogue in 2016 at Cornell Tech in Manhattan and were lucky when a tech mogul, Charles E. Phillips Jr., the chief executive of Infor, gave him two desks on the fifth floor of Infor’s elegantly restored Flatiron headquarters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.By spring 2017, Datalogue had grown to five employees and had raised $1.5 million in seed funding. But to bring in more engineers would have cost thousands of dollars in visa fees, Mr. Delisle said, and even then, the process would not be guaranteed. Canada has a burgeoning artificial intelligence sector, and the company opened its Montreal office in April in the trendy Mile End neighborhood; it raised another $1.5 million in seed funding by November.Still, Mr. Delisle said that his company has better access to customers in New York, and for that reason he has kept seven employees there for sales and marketing.While tech is still thriving in New York, where it is the fastest-growing industry in the city, losing offices or whole companies to Canada could be a concern, said Kevin Ryan, an entrepreneur who had founded a half-dozen start-ups. The multiplier effect of the start-up world is a powerful one.“When someone decides not to come here to join a start-up, and they go to Toronto, some of them may break off and start a new company across the street,” he said. “The wider impact will be felt, literally, for decades.”Mr. Delisle agreed. “I’m not necessarily scared for New York; there’s phenomenal programs there,” he said. “I am more scared for the broader policies being applied right now.”According to the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group, immigration has always been central to the economy of New York. Forty-eight percent of the city’s small-business owners are immigrants, and 45 percent of the work force in the city is foreign-born.“The No. 1 priority of business today is where they can get the talent they need from the global talent pool,” said Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the group. “There’s not much a locality can do to incentivize, but we can try to keep the global pipeline open.”Stimulating the city economy was the impetus for New York City’s Economic Development Corporation to create a program called International Innovators Initiative, or IN2NYC. The idea was to provide H-1B visas that were exempt from the government-imposed cap because entrepreneurs would work in partnership with city universities.One company that was initially rejected has appealed — and set up shop in Canada while it is waiting for a decision.Go to Home Page »How well did you follow the news this week? How many of these 10 questions can you get right?Please note: Our next quiz will publish on Jan. 23, and it will include two weeks of news.physical fitness; in excellent shapemental health; perfectly sanehearing ability; not hard-of-hearingloyalty to conservative causes; a genuine RepublicanItalyIrelandPolandEl Salvadorblizzard-zillabarometric hammerlow-pressure cookerbomb cyclonewhalingunlimited cod and haddock fishingnew offshore oil and gas drillinggarbage dumpingOprah WinfreyHarvey WeinsteinMelania TrumpKim KardashianMalaysiaEgyptIranIraqKellyanne ConwayJared KushnerStephen K. BannonPaul Manafortlong neglected peace gardenwar veterans cemeteryrevenue-generating duty-free storeborder hotlineAlabamaOhio StateClemsonOklahomaThree of the tech-related stories listed below were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?Accused of Slowing Old iPhones, Apple Offers Battery DiscountsResearchers Discover Two Major Flaws in the World’s ComputersSilicon Valley Startup Seeks To Change The Way Women Flee Tech IndustryWithout Naming Trump, Twitter Says It Won’t Block World LeadersSupported byOp-Ed ContributorThis article has been updated to reflect news developments.DAVIS, CALIF. — On Tuesday Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the White House’s plan to rescind protections for young immigrants who arrived in the United States illegally as children, but with a six-month grace period to let Congress respond. The program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, grants those who qualify for the program a reprieve from deportation, which they must renew every two years.The White House claims that DACA, which President Barack Obama announced in 2012 and which has broad bipartisan support, is illegal, but deferred action is a widely accepted legal principle. Over the last five years, DACA has become a core part of America’s immigration landscape: DACA has been granted to more than 800,000 immigrants, allowing them to attend school, work and contribute to their communities. Its repeal would upend the lives not only of these “Dreamers,” as participants are called, but also of their families, co-workers and employers.The announcement leaves the Dreamers with countless questions. While authorities have said they won’t prioritize DACA participants after the program ends, how easily could that change? Will Congress come through with a replacement? The announcement says that information provided in DACA applications would not be proactively shared, with some exceptions — but does that leave open the possibility that information may be shared upon request from enforcement agencies?At least two things are clear, however. First, the government must continue to treat current DACA recipients as people with deferred action, who should not be removed unless they violate the terms of DACA. Officials say that some recipients will be allowed to keep their status and even renew; the government should make this clear and apply it to all current DACA participants. The Department of Homeland Security has its own standard operating procedures that specify the process of how one’s particular DACA approval may be rescinded. The government must continue to comply with its own guidelines and not revoke a person’s deferral arbitrarily.Second, and most important, is what the government does with the information Dreamers gave it as part of their application — information that amounts to an admission of their having entered the country illegally, albeit without their knowledge, since they were children at the time. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which administers DACA, should delete all their information.Applicants gave that information with the assurance that it would not be shared with Immigration and Customs Enforcement or Customs and Border Enforcement, the agencies that otherwise would be charged with deporting them. As the Citizenship and Immigration Services’ own guidance states, “information provided in this request is protected from disclosure to ICE or C.B.P.,” unless the applicant commits a crime or poses a national security threat.Dreamers divulged information to the government, expecting that their information would not be shared. The information includes not only potentially incriminating information like date of initial entry and length of stay in the United States, but also details like their names, addresses, school information and Social Security numbers — precisely what the government needs to locate and detain them quickly.As Zachary Price of the University of California Hastings College of the Law has argued, using such information would constitute entrapment. Courts have thrown out convictions of defendants who were prosecuted based on actions, statements or information they provided when they were assured that their conduct would not lead to adverse action. Dreamers facing deportation could apply the same logic here. Absent that information, it would be much harder, though not impossible, to deport them. Allowing the government to use their information would be, to quote the Supreme Court in a leading entrapment case, “shocking to the universal sense of justice.”This is information that Dreamers would not have given the government without such nondisclosure assurances. They thought they could trust the government. In fact, in some cases lawyers advised clients who were considering applying not to, precisely, they said, because the government couldn’t be trusted.Allowing the government to use the information obtained through DACA to find these individuals and remove them would not only be heartless, but would set a dangerous precedent. Even if Congress, sometime in the future, were to enact a legislative equivalent of DACA, what are the chances that undocumented immigrants would once again put their faith in a government database?In an interview President Trump gave days after his inauguration, he said that he was looking at the DACA program with a “big heart.” Seven months later, many are heartbroken about the loss of a program that has brought thousands of Americans a sense of belonging despite their lack of “papers.” But as in so many cases under this still-young administration, the expansive cruelty of the executive branch may yet be tempered by the powers and wisdom of America’s legal system.Rose Cuison Villazor, a law professor at the University of California at Davis, is co-editor, with Gabriel Chin, of “The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965: Legislating a New America.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOpinionTHE decision by the Trump administration to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and to defer instead to Congress for a solution to the problem threw a wild card onto a congressional agenda that was already packed. But far more important, it thrust the lives of roughly 800,000 of our friends and neighbors into instant uncertainty.Washington being Washington, the administration’s decision and its confusing aftermath produced heated and generally unhelpful rhetoric from the extremes of both political parties. Having served as the Republican majority leader in the House of Representatives during the last major immigration debate, I understand the implications of this all too well.In 2013, a year after the Obama administration established the DACA program, I announced that I was working on legislation to provide a more stable way forward for these so-called Dreamers: young people who had been brought into this country illegally as children and who knew no other home.As we continued to gather support for the legislation and the 2014 election neared, protesters from both sides of the debate descended on Richmond, Va., my hometown, for dueling rallies. Those from the left attacked me for blocking comprehensive reform because of my focus on Dreamers, while my friends on the right claimed I was promoting an amnesty.I have long believed that America is a country of laws and that border security is paramount. I also firmly believe that the principles of our founding dictate that children should not be punished for the illegal acts of their parents. The Dreamers were not responsible for their situation, and as a compassionate nation and people we owed them our help: a legal process that could address their status effectively and permanently. But Congress was gridlocked and my proposal went nowhere.Fast forward to today. The Trump administration has stated that the DACA program will end in six months unless Congress acts. What will Congress do?As President Barack Obama himself acknowledged, DACA is an imperfect and temporary solution. Every two years Dreamers must renew their deferment from deportation and their work permit. And while DACA makes it possible for them to enroll in college, they remain barred from receiving federal financial aid. Even under DACA, the Dreamers never fully and legally integrate into our country.Only Congress can fix this mess. It should do so by providing a path for law-abiding Dreamers to obtain a green card and ultimately, full citizenship.In exchange for a much improved program for Dreamers, Congress should significantly increase America’s border security by funding additional personnel, technology and physical resources at our border. While President Trump’s “wall” has gotten all the political attention, much of the border can be secured more quickly and efficiently by other means. In addition, Congress should require the institution of a comprehensive biometric entry-exit system to prevent visa overstays.For Republicans, these measures are a critical first step before tackling broader immigration changes. Of course, this is the sort of deal that the extreme wings of both parties will oppose, but it is exactly the type of sensible compromise the nation needs.Over the past couple of days, we have heard that President Trump and some members of Congress are on the verge of such a compromise, only to later learn that there may not be a deal after all. It’s hard to say exactly what is happening, but it seems safe to say that the president, congressional Democrats and congressional Republicans all have different ideas of what constitutes “protecting the Dreamers” and “securing the border.”Watching this unfold, I was reminded of those dueling protests in my district three years ago, when I shook my head wondering how one group of people could call my proposal amnesty for illegal immigrants while another described the very same proposal as a step backward for illegal immigrants.I fear we are on the verge of the same thing happening again. Each day that passes without a deal increases the likelihood that Washington will ultimately do what it usually does: keep the status quo. At best, this would entail Congress authorizing the current DACA program with the same two-year renewals and uncertainty for Dreamers. In the meantime, Democrats and Republicans would continue to fight over border security with little or no progress to show for it.While keeping the status quo would protect the Dreamers from immediate deportation, it would represent a missed opportunity of tremendous proportions for them, for border security and for broader immigration reform.It is well past time for Republicans to stand up to those on the right who are quick to denounce any sensible solution as amnesty and for Democrats to stand up to those on the left who rail against any meaningful steps toward border security and immigration enforcement.The fate of the Dreamers presents a unique opportunity for both parties to do just that. If they do, we may well look back on this as the beginning of the end of the immigration wars.Eric Cantor is a former Republican House majority leader and vice chairman and managing director at Moelis & Company.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSHouston Police Chief Art Acevedo, speaking at The New York Times’s Cities for Tomorrow conference, said it’s up to local leaders to care for immigrants under increased pressure from state and federal authorities.In fact, some analysts saw the remarks as fitting a pattern of crude, dehumanizing and racist language to describe migrants and asylum seekers that has steadily edged its way into the mainstream. Coming from the White House, such words may be taken by some as a broader signal that racism is now an acceptable part of political discourse.Even the Vatican newspaper, L’Osservatore Romano, weighed in, declaring Mr. Trump’s comments “particularly harsh and offensive.”But the political reality is that migration has become a salient issue — and not only for right-wing, populist and nativist politicians. Across many affluent societies, people are anxious about technological change, rising inequality and stagnant wages, and they have focused their ire at the global flows of capital and, especially, labor. There are also concerns about demographic change, as the world becomes less white and as western societies age.Moreover, the chaos and violence that have driven people from the Middle East, Southwest Asia and sub-Saharan Africa to seek to live elsewhere, even as far away as Australia and Canada, have also raised fears about refugees who do not appreciate the values of the countries hosting them — or even worse, fears of terrorists taking advantage of humanitarian policies to infiltrate societies and then carry out attacks.Hours before the news of Mr. Trump’s comments broke on Thursday, the United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, spoke about the need for more “safe, orderly and regular” migration.He implored nations to “use facts, not prejudice” to address the challenges of migration.“Globally, migration remains poorly managed,” he acknowledged. “The impact can be seen in the humanitarian crises affecting people on the move, and in the human rights violations suffered by those living in slavery or enduring degrading working conditions. It can be seen, too, in the political impact of public perception that wrongly sees migration as out of control. The consequences include increased mistrust and policies aimed more at stopping than facilitating human movement.”Mr. Knaus, of the European Stability Initiative, was one of several commentators who expressed fear that Mr. Trump would only embolden xenophobic rhetoric.“This will have consequences because it’s widely followed,” he said. “In every Austrian and German village, they follow what the U.S. president is doing.”In Western Europe, heads of government have sometimes described migrants in terms of floods and hordes — but the most abusive language has usually been restricted to far-right opposition politicians like Marine Le Pen in France and Geert Wilders in Holland.“What is dangerous is if this kind of language migrates from the far-right to the mainstream,” Mr. Knaus added.But some in migration policy circles fear this transition has already begun.Several European heads of government were proudly xenophobic in their responses to a refugee crisis in 2015, when more than one million asylum seekers arrived by boat on European shores, prompting a surge in support for far-right parties and nativist rhetoric — particularly in Central and Eastern Europe.Prominent among them was Viktor Orban, the prime minister of Hungary, who criticized non-Christian migrants and then built a wall to stop migrants from entering Hungary.European leaders initially distanced themselves from him — in both word and action. But by March 2016, several had come around to his policy suggestions, if not the tone in which he had made them.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While still moderate in tone, some leaders are pursuing policies that are Trumpian in spirit, said Catherine Woollard, secretary general of the European Council on Refugees and Exiles, an alliance of nearly 100 refugee rights groups.“There’s a denial among many European leaders that they’re anything like Trump — while they promote measures that will have the same impact” as Mr. Trump’s restrictions, she said.Though the policy has been justified in humanitarian terms, because it has reduced the number of people put at risk in the Mediterranean, it has also trapped thousands of migrants in slavery-like conditions on Libyan soil.In Brussels, European Union leaders are debating whether and how to change the bloc’s common asylum policy. Central and Eastern European countries are among those that support changes Ms. Woollard believes will curb refugee rights in Europe. But so, too, is Germany, widely seen as one of the countries most sympathetic to refugees.Then there is a contentious deal between the European Union and Turkey that is aimed at closing the main migration routes into Eastern Europe. European Union leadership has justified this as a humanitarian gesture, since it has curbed the number of migrant shipwrecks.But Ms. Woollard feels this justification has “sugarcoated” the actions of Western European leaders, as it has also confined thousands of asylum seekers in impoverished conditions in Greece and Turkey.Restrictive migration policy is “not solely confined to the black sheep in the East,” Ms. Woollard said.“There is a danger that in opposing this kind of rhetoric one basically strengthens it because we say that anyone who is in favor of controlling borders is in favor of Trump,” Mr. Knaus said. “That is very dangerous because it concedes to racist politicians that being in favor of control is the same as being racist. And it’s not.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:Once again many people are making kneejerk remarks about stopping immigration, especially from Muslim nations, because the man who set off the bomb was a Muslim from Bangladesh. My family immigrated here in the 1960s from Pakistan. They, like 99.99999 percent of Muslim immigrants, are hardworking, educated professionals who are now American citizens.Since we live in a free and open society, it is impossible to stop every attack, just as it’s impossible to stop every mass shooting by a crazed gunman. The more the bigots in this nation are willing to dispose of human rights and rationality in the hope of finding some panacea to the problem of terrorism, the more these attacks will occur here and abroad.To the Editor:It’s time to end “extended family chain migration.” If we allow people to become permanent residents of the United States, should we allow them to bring in their spouse and children? Sure. But this guy was a nephew of someone here. Where does it end? Second or third cousins?We have enough homegrown nuts running around. Why open the doors so wide that we’re just asking for more? Many will immediately resort to the tired default accusations of racism or Islamophobia. I merely call it a rational and reasonable precaution that should apply equally to people of all other nations no matter their religion or race.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe Trump administration and the sheriff in Portland, Ore., agree on this much: The crimes were hideous and preventable. But they are fiercely blaming each other for allowing them to happen.Under political fire for releasing Mr. Martinez after his most recent stint in jail, the sheriff declared that President Trump’s immigration agency was at fault for failing to provide a legal basis for holding him longer, while the White House blamed the sheriff for letting him go.Cases like that of Mr. Martinez around the country are inciting outrage, amplified by an administration that is eager to expel undocumented immigrants.In a recent speech in Miami that made national headlines, Attorney General Jeff Sessions described the case and several others like it in graphic detail, and said that releasing potentially deportable immigrants like Mr. Martinez when their jail terms were over does “far broader damage to the country than many understand.”“At its root,” he added, “it is a rejection of our immigration laws.”The political jockeying is rooted in a vexing constitutional disconnect between criminal justice and immigration enforcement, which is a matter of civil, not criminal, law. Questions about the legality of trying to connect the two may become one of the most significant legal challenges to the Trump administration’s immigration policy, experts say.The way the administration sees it, the nation’s jails have the potential to become a powerful pipeline for deportation. But jailed immigrants must serve their sentences first, before they can be detained by the immigration authorities — and as a practical matter, it is often impossible for immigration agents to be present and ready at the jail the moment the immigrants are released, which may happen on short notice, late at night or on a weekend.The immigration agency has tried to solve that problem by requesting that the local police keep holding inmates like Mr. Martinez for days after their sentences end, to allow time for agents to pick them up. In a series of decisions, federal judges have declared the practice unconstitutional — but the Trump administration has continued to demand compliance anyway.Since he took office, the president and his attorney general have mounted an unbridled political assault against local officials who refuse to honor the requests, which are known as detainers. At the same time, though, cities and states across the country have adopted policies that bar local officials from doing so. The situation has local sheriffs and police chiefs in a bind: Whom should they obey, the president or the courts?“Until the Supreme Court speaks on this, you will continue to see a division in the country,” said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York University School of Law.Making matters worse, both sides of the argument have tended to mischaracterize the underlying legal issues in order to score political points.In his frequent public scoldings of local officials, Mr. Sessions routinely ignores the constitutional issues that the detainer requests raise. Judges have said that holding people in criminal custody for a civil infraction violates the Fourth Amendment protection against unreasonable seizures, and the administration’s demands violate the 10th Amendment by forcing states to do the federal government’s bidding.The Multnomah County sheriff, Mike Reese, whose jurisdiction includes Portland, has responded to criticism over the Martinez case with another problematic argument, one that has been frequently advanced by officials under fire from the administration.In a statement, Sheriff Reese said he could not have held Mr. Martinez after his sentence ended because immigration officials had not produced a valid criminal warrant. “Instead, they processed a civil detainer, which they know cannot be legally used in Oregon,” Sheriff Reese wrote.Under federal law, though, immigration officials have no standing to obtain a warrant in the criminal courts.While the legal issues remain unresolved, cases like that of Mr. Martinez continue to pile up, and to be trumpeted by the administration with unrelenting pressure.The local sheriff in Santa Rosa told enraged residents that he was legally bound to release Mr. Estrada after he posted bail. But a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, James Schwab, faulted the sheriff, saying that his policy concerning detainers had “clearly failed in this case, as it has in too many others.”“Not only does the policy undermine ICE’s ability to carry out its mission, but it needlessly puts our communities at risk,” Mr. Schwab said.Advocacy groups for immigrants are campaigning to strengthen the legal firewall between jails and immigration enforcement with legislation to restrict extended jail holds or ban them altogether. At least four state legislatures and many more cities and counties have considered enacting such laws this year.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The advocates say that when the local police cooperate too closely with the immigration agency, undocumented immigrants avoid coming forward to report crimes or act as witnesses.“It’s not about those individuals,” Thomas A. Saenz, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said of defendants like Mr. Martinez and Mr. Estrada. “It’s about the message that’s sent to the community.”Mr. Saenz and others say that while the extreme cases capture public attention, most of the people for whom the immigration agency issues detainers were arrested for low-level offenses like driving without a license — charges that they say hardly justify throwing aside the Bill of Rights.For many sheriffs, though, the worst stories can be too jarring, both ethically and politically, to ignore. Most sheriffs are elected, and the cases often prompt indignant letter-writing campaigns and explosive town-hall-style meetings, with constituents on both sides of the debate demanding answers.“They’re mortified,” Jonathan F. Thompson, executive director of the National Sheriffs’ Association, said of his group’s members. “They know that the people they are trying to keep off the street, they are unable to.”“When they take a chance and they hold them, it can boomerang and be very damaging,” Mr. Thompson said.Sheriffs from across the political spectrum have called on the federal government to settle the issue definitively, which would probably require an overhaul of the country’s immigration laws, an unlikely undertaking in the current political climate. In the meantime, local governments are left with administrative moves by the executive branch that have widely been perceived as cosmetic and ineffectual.For example, in April, the immigration agency changed its standard form for detainers to remove the word “voluntary” from the top. It also announced that each request would be accompanied by an administrative warrant, a type not reviewed by a judge. Experts say neither step would appear to make any legal difference.A meeting this spring between Mr. Sessions and several sheriffs offered one reason the Trump administration may seem so far out of sync with local authorities on the issue. According to one sheriff who was there — Richard Stanek of Hennepin County, Minn. — when the federal court decisions from the last three years concerning extended jail holds came up in discussion, Mr. Sessions appeared to be unfamiliar with them.“He was still living in 2014,” Mr. Stanek said. “He had no idea what we were talking about.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byThe trump presidencyeconomy— Binyamin Appelbaumeconomy— Linda Qiueconomy— Jim Tankersleyhealth care— Robert Peareconomy— Jim Tankersleyeconomy— Jim Tankersleyhealth care— Robert Pearenergy— Coral Davenporteconomy— Linda Qiuhealth care— Robert Pearinfrastructure— Emily Cochraneimmigration— Ron NixonimmigrationThe visa lottery program provides 50,000 immigrant visas to people from countries with low immigration rates to the United States.An 18-page guide from the State Department says applicants must have a high school education or two years of work experience in the past five years that requires “two years of training or experience.”The applicant must undergo a medical exam and cannot have a criminal record. Visa winners are then subjected to a lengthy background check that can last for months.— Ron Nixonimmigration— Ron Nixonnational securityAmerican-led forces had already wrested more than 13,000 square miles of territory from the group by the time Mr. Trump was elected in November 2016. Things accelerated after he gave American commanders more authority to order airstrikes and make battlefield decisions. But the defeat of the caliphate does not mean the end of the Islamic State, or ISIS, as a movement or ideology.economyBack then, level of the stock market was significantly lower, reflecting the impact of the financial crisis in the United States and the deep recession that followed. Under Mr. Obama, stocks continued to recover and also notched a series of record highs, starting in 2013.— Matt Phillipstrade— Natalie Kitroeffeconomy— Jim Tankersleytaxes— Jim TankersleyJoseph P. Kennedy III delivered the Democratic response to the State of the Union. Below is a fact check of his remarks.economy— Linda QiuCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSA pregnant Mexican woman with a small son is determined to reunite her family and join her husband in America. She wants her new child to be born an American, with both parents present. So she hires a smuggler to take her and the boy north. But the arduous journey weakens her. She dies en route in the desert.This could be a wrenching personal story ripped from today’s news to illustrate the struggles of undocumented immigrants who feel strong bonds to their homeland but want to get ahead in America.The story opens in present-day New York. A Mexican immigrant, Laurentino (played here by Octavio Moreno, a fine baritone with soft-spoken charisma) is ill and dying. At times he doesn’t recognize his American-born son, Mark (Efraín Solís, a mellow baritone), and Mark’s daughter Diana (Maria Valdes, a sweet soprano), an aspiring writer.On his deathbed, Laurentino lets slip that before he married Mark’s mother, he had a Mexican wife, Renata (Cecilia Duarte, a creamy-voiced mezzo-soprano), and that they had a son, Rafael, who is presumably still living in Mexico.In the context of this story, that Laurentino in his hazy mental state confuses Mark with Rafael has uncommon poignancy. He can’t bear to think of his earlier life or even return to his homeland. Yet, he’s still claimed by it. Past and present mingle in his mind.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The opera, which runs 75 minutes without a break, becomes a series of beautifully juxtaposed scenes that shift from New York today to Mexico 50 years earlier, when we see Laurentino and Renata marry. At the center is the crucial scene when Renata attempts to reach America with little Rafael, only to die in the desert, long known metaphorically as the “face of the moon.”The mariachi musical idiom is run through with supple, animated rhythmic riffs. The bright trumpets lend flair. But the music is carried by lyrical, melodic stretches in the violins. There is restraint and modesty in the Martínez’s songs and ensemble numbers. During the jubilant scene when Laurentino and Renata marry, the music is festive yet tinged with darkness, conveying, I felt, that life is full of unknowns. Most operas would milk the final scene when Laurentino’s first son, Rafael, appears at the old man’s deathbed and reconciles. This one plays it with melancholic understatement.Moment after moment, this piece captured the dilemma of immigration in sadly human ways. When Laurentino tells his young wife that he must go to America for the future of the family, she bluntly replies, “I didn’t marry you to get money in the mail.”See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump has spent his first year in office breaking every rule of presidential communication, conducting policymaking and diplomacy by Twitter and eschewing the careful, subdued tones of most presidents in favor of no-holds-barred attacks on his adversaries and allies alike.But on Tuesday, Mr. Trump will embrace the most traditional of presidential venues — appearing before a joint session of Congress for his first State of the Union address — to deliver what aides describe as an optimistic speech that will seek to reach beyond the people who voted for him in 2016.But if his first year has proved anything, it is that there are no guarantees when Mr. Trump faces a television camera. Cabinet meetings have veered into presidential rants. Memorial speeches have turned into self-congratulatory moments. Short photo ops have become long news conferences.“Teleprompter Trump sounds like a regular president,” said Michael Waldman, who was director of speechwriting for President Bill Clinton from 1995 to 1999 and wrote four State of the Union speeches. “Off-the-Teleprompter Trump sounds like a fill-in radio talk show host.”But former speechwriters said traditional State of the Union speeches were a poor fit for Mr. Trump because they tended to be long lists of policy proposals, cobbled together over months in a process that involves agency employees across the federal government. During his first year, the president showed only a sporadic interest in the nuts and bolts of policymaking.Jonathan Horn, who was a speechwriter for President George W. Bush, said Mr. Trump’s Twitter habit could undermine the political benefits of the speech. Hovering over the address is an accelerating Russia investigation and a congressional stalemate over spending.“The next day there could be a tweet, and then the work on a very, very long speech is overshadowed by 280 characters,” said Mr. Horn, who was part of a team that drafted Mr. Bush’s 2008 State of the Union address.Other presidents have sought to maximize the political benefits of the vast State of the Union audience — 48 million people watched President Barack Obama deliver his first address in 2010 — by holding events across the country in the days after the speech. White House officials declined this past week to say whether Mr. Trump would do the same.Mr. Trump’s address could be a crucial moment in the debate over his immigration plan, which has been condemned by both sides since it was delivered to Congress on Thursday.Senior White House officials said the president would spend a significant amount of time in the speech reminding viewers how much his administration has accomplished since he first promised to challenge the establishment and confront what he called “this American carnage.” In doing so, he will rebut criticism that his first year was light on major legislative accomplishments, despite having a Republican Congress.Neil Bradley, the executive vice president and chief policy officer for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said he hoped Mr. Trump would offer a vision for how the country could build upon his past successes to seek more growth and opportunity.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Part of that, Mr. Bradley said, should be a forceful case for infrastructure spending, including a dedicated revenue source like an increase in the federal gasoline tax to fund transportation improvements.“We’ve been patching over the problems in that system,” Mr. Bradley said. He said public-private partnerships, like the ones the administration has considered, can save money for taxpayers, but he added, “If we really want to rebuild our infrastructure and modernize, we can’t keep patching it over, and we can’t do it on the cheap.”The White House is proud of the fact that Republicans were able to repeal even a small part of the Affordable Care Act — the penalties for people who go without health insurance. The president could take credit for that and for regulatory efforts to dismantle other parts of the law that Republicans dislike. But his party appears far away from its yearslong goal of doing away with the law entirely.It is also unclear what Mr. Trump might say about the high cost of many prescription drugs. Mr. Trump said last year that drug companies were “getting away with murder,” but he has not taken many steps to solve the problem.Consumer advocates and employers, who pay the bills for drug coverage, are hoping to hear more from the president, who could at least point to the work of the Food and Drug Administration to speed the approval of lower-cost generic drugs.On national security, Mr. Trump’s aides said the president would make his case for a bigger military, more secure borders and fair trade, which critics say is a euphemism for protectionist policies.“The president should highlight success,” said Elliott Abrams, who served in the Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush administrations.In addition to Jerusalem, Mr. Abrams checked off the administration’s decision to provide lethal weapons to Ukraine, its imposition of harsh sanctions on North Korea and Mr. Trump’s criticism of NATO, which he said had prodded members to spend more on their militaries.Mr. Trump, he said, also needed to “analyze frankly the greatest threats to the United States from opponents,” which the administration has done in the National Security Strategy it issued last month. It listed China and Russia as the nation’s biggest geopolitical foes.“There’s an opportunity to explain his thinking on policies that people are concerned about,” said James Jay Carafano, the vice president for foreign and defense policy studies at the Heritage Foundation, who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition. “These guys have cranked out a lot of policy.”For lawmakers, the Iran deal is a particular source of concern. This month, Mr. Trump gave Congress and European allies 120 days to overhaul the terms of the agreement or, he warned, he would nullify it. There are wide gaps between Democrats and Republicans on the issue, and little sign yet that they can bridge them by Mr. Trump’s deadline.Mr. Carafano said he did not expect Mr. Trump to outline a new approach to foreign policy that goes beyond the “America First” credo he articulated during the campaign. But he said the president might elaborate on his distinctive view of globalism — one that places heavy emphasis on a world of sovereign, strong and independent states.“You might see him focus on the ‘peace through strength’ theme, and call on Congress to support spending for the military,” he said.Cody Keenan, the chief speechwriter for Mr. Obama during his second term, said he would be watching to see whether Mr. Trump tries to speak to people who might not have supported him during the campaign, after a year in which the president’s actions have seemed focused more on shoring up his base than courting new backers.“Is there any sense that he wants to speak to people who didn’t vote for him?” Mr. Keenan asked.“Spoiler alert, he’s going to look presidential,” Mr. Keenan added. “That’s the most presidential thing that a president does, with all the pomp and circumstance. The question is, will what he says be presidential?”Robert Pear contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Driving on Long Island in August, Denis Guerra Guerra was stopped by the police in Nassau County for failing to signal when changing lanes, a traffic infraction punishable by a ticket. Two weeks later, he was deported to El Salvador.A police officer had taken his identification — a passport from El Salvador — and discovered a pending order of removal from immigration authorities.Elise Damas, a lawyer for Carecen, announced the suit at a news conference at Hofstra University.“Carecen seeks an ironclad assurance that Nassau County will act in accordance with New York State law, and not just with federal immigration policies,” she said. “Nassau County police are tasked with ensuring the safety of all communities countywide, a goal which cannot be achieved until immigrants feel protected.”Peter L. Markowitz, a professor at Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, called the lawsuit significant, saying: “New York State laws strictly define when it is O.K. and not O.K. for a state officer to make an arrest. And that does not include the authority to make civil immigration arrests.”Mr. Guerra Guerra, 30, is not named in the lawsuit. He is a client of Ms. Damas’s, though, and she said he was the impetus for the suit. But since he is in El Salvador, the lead plaintiff in the case is “Jane Doe,” a 26-year-old undocumented immigrant living in Nassau County. The woman has had no interaction so far with local police but, the suit claims, is at risk because of county policies; the lawyers declined to name her because she is applying for asylum.Lt. Richard LeBrun, a spokesman for the county police department, responded to the lawsuit by stating the department’s policy, which has been in effect since January 2007: “The Nassau County Police Department will not inquire into any person’s immigration status unless they are arrested for a crime. This includes the immigration status of crime victims, witnesses and anyone who calls the police seeking assistance.” The police may report the presence of an undocumented immigrant upon arrest, the policy says.In August, Nassau’s acting police commissioner, Patrick J. Ryder, issued a statement saying that Mr. Guerra Guerra’s lack of a driver’s license and registration prompted further questions, which led to the discovery of a box cutter in his car. He was arrested on charges of possession of a weapon, but those charges were dropped at the precinct.The Nassau County attorney, Carnell Foskey, said that he would not comment on “matters of litigation.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The suit said the county’s policy was flawed on two fronts: first, that the Nassau police’s holding undocumented immigrants who are not accused of other crimes was unlawful, and second, that the county’s policy of honoring requests from ICE to hold immigrants for 48 hours at local jails, know as detainers, creates an environment of fear where immigrants would be reluctant to report crimes.Ms. Damas said that the police department was afraid it would lose federal funding if the Trump administration considered the county unwilling to assist immigration authorities.“It’s the federal government coming in and getting involved in law enforcement in our community,” Ms. Damas said.Donna Zak, the supervisor of the immigration unit at the Legal Aid Society on Long Island, said that before President Trump took office, “Someone who was brought in on a traffic infraction would not have been held for ICE.” Now, she said, “The ICE holds are growing in numbers.”Asked about the Nassau suit, Christopher Lasch, a professor University of Denver Sturm College of Law, who studies detainer law, said, “It’s a sensible challenge because it goes straight to what is perhaps the easiest question for the state court to answer: does our state law give our officers the ability to make civil immigration arrests.”Arielle Dollinger contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorDr. Stevens runs the Deportation Research Clinic at Northwestern University.We’re familiar with grim stories about black-shirted federal agents barging into apartment complexes, convenience stores and school pickup sites to round up and deport immigrants. We’ve heard far less about the forced labor — some call it slavery — inside detention facilities. But new legal challenges to these practices are succeeding and may stymie the government’s deportation agenda by taking profits out of the detention business.Yes, detention is a business. In 2010, private prisons and their lenders and investors lobbied Congress to pass a law ordering Immigration and Customs Enforcement to maintain contracts for no fewer than 34,000 beds per night. This means that when detention counts are low, people who would otherwise be released because they pose no danger or flight risk and are likely to win their cases in immigration court remain locked up, at a cost to the government of about $125 a day.The people detained at these facilities do almost all of the work that keeps them running, outside of guard duty. That includes cooking, serving and cleaning up food, janitorial services, laundry, haircutting, painting, floor buffing and even vehicle maintenance. Most jobs pay $1 a day; some work they are required to do pays nothing.Workers in immigration custody have suffered injuries and even died. In 2007, Cesar Gonzalez was killed in a facility in Los Angeles County when his jackhammer hit an electrical cable, sending 10,000 volts of direct current through his body. He was on a crew digging holes for posts to extend the camp’s perimeter.Crucially, California’s Division of Occupational Safety and Health ruled that regardless of his status as a detainee, Mr. Gonzalez was also an employee, and his employer was found to have violated state laws on occupational safety and health.Two of the country’s biggest detention companies — GEO and CoreCivic, known as CCA — are now under attack by five lawsuits. They allege that the obligatory work and eight-hour shifts for no or little pay are unlawful. They also accuse the companies of violating state minimum wage laws, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act and laws prohibiting unjust enrichment.GEO’s own defense provides insights into just how much its profits depend on labor coerced from the people it locks up. In 2017, after Federal District Judge John Kane certified a class-action lawsuit on behalf of GEO residents in Aurora, Colo., the company filed an appeal claiming the suit “poses a potentially catastrophic risk to GEO’s ability to honor its contracts with the federal government.”Court records suggest that GEO may be paying just 1.25 percent to 6 percent of minimum wage, and as little as half of 1 percent of what federal contractors are supposed to pay under the Service Contract Act. If the plaintiffs win, that’s tens of millions of dollars GEO would be obligated to pay in back wages to up to 62,000 people, not to mention additional payments going forward. And that’s just at one facility.GEO’s appeal tanked. During oral arguments last summer, the company’s lawyer defended the work program by explaining that those held in Aurora “make a decision each time whether they’re going to consent to work or not.” A judge interjected, “Or eat, or be put in isolation, right? I mean, slaves had a choice, right?” The 10th Circuit panel in February unanimously ruled that the case could proceed.On top of that, last year GEO was sued for labor violations in its Tacoma, Wash., facility. In October, United States District Judge Robert Bryan, a Reagan appointee (!), denied GEO’s motions to dismiss these cases and for the first time allowed claims under the state minimum wage laws to proceed, as well as those for forced labor and unjust enrichment.Those who cheer this outcome should feel encouraged. The measures the representatives asked for — including a statement by the government that those who work while locked up are “not employees” and that federal minimum wage laws do not apply to them — won’t stop the litigation. Agency pronouncements cannot overturn statutes. As long as judges follow the laws, more of the true costs of deportation will be put into the ledgers.If the price of human suffering does not deter the barbarism of rounding people up based on the happenstance of birth, then maybe pinched taxpayer wallets will.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorEric, the oldest at 14, is in the eighth grade and wants the local Wendy’s to make an exception to its minimum age requirement so he can work there. “I’m the man of the house now,” he told me. When their father left, so did the only member of the family who could drive. Eric walks several miles to the grocery store and returns carrying heavy bags of food even in the snow. Their mother, who is also undocumented, is now the family’s sole source of income and works long hours at a factory, so Eric has to come straight home from school to take care of his younger siblings. (He had to scrap plans to try out for the wrestling team.)Edwin, 12, has nightmares about his father and crawls into his mother’s bed almost every night. Classmates taunt him that they hope his mother gets deported, too. Anuar, 10, who calms himself by doing equations in his head, brought me his report card with a perfect 100 in math. Elsiy, 6, has not been eating well since her father’s been gone.I recently met Jim Chuquirima, a 16-year-old American citizen whose mother is undocumented. He is bespectacled, painfully shy and builds computers out of spare parts that his mother, Nelly Cumbicos, buys him. Ms. Cumbicos is a movie-star-beautiful single mother from Ecuador who had sworn off men before she met Ramón Muñiz, a roofer and die-hard union man who lived on the first floor of the multifamily home in Meriden, Conn., where Jim and Nelly rented the third floor. He would fix Nelly’s car, pick Jim up from school while she was at work and leave unsigned love letters on the windshield of her car. They married in their home on Halloween in 2015.An American citizen, he insisted in 2015 that she let him petition for her green card, even though she was afraid it would put ICE on her trail. She was right: When ICE became aware of Ms. Cumbico’s whereabouts, it located a deportation order from more than a decade before that she says she had never received because it was sent to a wrong address. ICE gave her a temporary stay on Feb. 5 only to inexplicably rescind it four days later. Like a botched execution, it left the family newly traumatized. Their legal fees have nearly bankrupted them. Her deportation is set for Wednesday.“I feel like this is my fault,” Mr. Muñiz said. “I put her in danger, but all I wanted was to protect her. I’m lost without her.”I, too, had to worry about this dilemma. I am the child of undocumented immigrants from Ecuador who brought me to this country when I was 5. I am the American dream incarnate, with an Ivy League education and a book deal. Now I am married to an American citizen, but there is no guarantee that my spouse’s status will shield me from deportation.For my own green card interview, I wore the collared pink silk J. Crew dress I wore to our wedding. I dress glamorously and wear a face full of designer makeup in any situation where I might be detained, out of pride and defiance. But this interview was not bait to detain me, the way interviews have been for so many less fortunate immigrants.I got my green card. Our marriage is real. My guilt is as well. It is so hard to imagine that Ramón’s desire to keep Nelly safe provoked the exact opposite result.Short of comprehensive immigration reform, which seems so unlikely these days, there are ways to end these inhumane deportations. In February 2017, John Kelly, then the secretary of homeland security, issued a memo essentially doing away with enforcement priorities for ICE, which generally called for not targeting undocumented immigrants if they did not have serious criminal records. The Kelly memo made all undocumented immigrants targets — even if they had spotless records, and even if they had spouses or children who were citizens. A return to Obama-era priorities that focused on criminals and security risks would restore some level of compassion to enforcement in the short term. Though far from the best solution, that would at least protect the rights of citizens.Unless protecting American citizens was never the point of any of this.Karla Cornejo Villavicencio is a graduate student in American studies at Yale.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe outline, drafted by Mr. Trump’s top policy adviser, Stephen Miller, and the Domestic Policy Council, should be seen as an administration wish list rather than a set of demands, according to an official involved directly in the drafting.The official said congressional approval of the new proposals is not required as part of Mr. Trump’s pledge to extend the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, which protects undocumented migrants brought into the country as children. But, the official said, they represent an overdue statement of immigration principles, as requested by conservative legislators as they wade into the difficult issue of an overhaul of the immigration system.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters on Monday that the White House intends to release a broad set of immigration proposals soon.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We will be putting out specific principles that the White House supports and would like to see done legislatively,” Ms. Sanders said.Congressional Democratic leaders declined on Tuesday to comment on the document. They said they would wait for Mr. Trump to issue a formal request as he pieces together a legislative package to preserve the status of the Dreamers and still honor his get-tough campaign pledge to crack down on illegal immigration and build a border wall with Mexico.A House Democratic leadership aide called the proposal a “complete nonstarter” and “not a serious document.” The aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it does not reflect the agreement the president made with Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi.The blueprint also includes a handful of proposals that have already been mentioned by the Trump administration or that have been included in Republican legislative proposals.They fall into three broad categories: securing the border; placing new restrictions on legal immigration to protect American workers, a focus for Mr. Miller; and increased enforcement of immigration laws within United States borders, as made possible by a major expansion of the agent force for the Department of Homeland Security.Other proposals include eliminating protections for unaccompanied, undocumented minors; restricting asylum for adults and children; implementing an online system that allows businesses to quickly check the immigration status of a person after being hired; and increasing fees for visa applications.An article last Wednesday about new immigration rules proposed by the White House described incorrectly one aspect of an online verification system. It is used by employers to screen the immigration status of people who have been hired, not employment applicants.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The White House unsuccessfully tried to pressure the Homeland Security Department to end a program that allows hundreds of thousands of people from countries affected by natural disasters or violence to live in the United States without fear of being deported, according to people familiar with the discussions.John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, made an 11th-hour plea to Elaine Duke, the acting Homeland Security secretary, ahead of a deadline this past Monday to decide about the status of immigrants in the program from Honduras and Nicaragua.Accounts of her phone calls with Mr. Kelly laid bare the strains between Trump administration officials trying to reduce both legal and illegal immigration — a campaign promise of President Trump’s — and career immigration officials who see those efforts as overly broad and harsh.The internal tensions over the administration’s immigration agenda were on display in discrepancies among descriptions of the calls.A White House official said that Mr. Kelly had encouraged Ms. Duke to make a decision but did not pressure her to end the program.But two other people briefed on the exchange said Ms. Duke had informed the White House over the weekend of her decision to postpone ending the program for Hondurans. Soon afterward, the two people said, Mr. Kelly called Ms. Duke from Asia, where he was traveling with Mr. Trump, to tell her she had made the wrong decision and to reconsider.Mr. Kelly’s message to Ms. Duke was that she needed to reverse course and end the program immediately, according to one of the people briefed on the call, who, like the others, asked for anonymity to describe a private discussion.Mr. Kelly raised none of the issues about conditions in Honduras, the person said. Mr. Kelly’s focus was on a smooth confirmation process for Mr. Trump’s pick to run the department, Kirstjen M. Nielsen, and avoiding any steps that would jeopardize the administration’s immigration policies.A Homeland Security spokesman denied that account.“It is perfectly normal for members of the White House team to weigh in on major decisions,” Tyler Q. Houlton, the spokesman, said on Thursday.And the White House official said that neither Ms. Nielsen’s name nor the subject of her confirmation hearing came up during Mr. Kelly’s call with Ms. Duke.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Trump administration will have to make similar decisions about Haitian immigrants later this month and El Salvadorans in March. The Nicaraguans who were protected under the program have until January 2019 to leave the United States.A memo written by the department’s Office of International Affairs division suggested extending the temporary protective status for another 18 months, saying it made no sense to send citizens of Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador who were covered back to their countries of origin.The memo suggested that economies in those countries were still incapable of creating sufficient job opportunities for their young and growing populations and could not handle an influx of thousands of returning people.“We are still years away from a Central America in which people see their futures at home and not in the United States,” the memo read, according to people who saw the document.Over all, the decision to end the program received pushback from other officials at the department, Homeland Security employees said.In response to questions about pressure to end the program, they said, White House officials and Mr. Kelly were making the argument to Ms. Duke that conditions had improved enough in Honduras to allow the protected immigrants to return home.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Take the cases of Syed Ahmed Jamal and Jesus Berrones, which have received a great deal of national attention in recent weeks. Both men have sympathetic stories, faced deportation and received temporary reprieves.The contrast underscores the discretion given to Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. It also raises questions about the extent of their powers and the rights of detainees. Here are answers to some of those questions.It depends.If someone in custody already faces an order of deportation, the options may be limited.A lawyer may be able to argue, as Mr. Jamal’s successfully did, that the judge should temporarily stay the removal. A lawyer may also be able to persuade a judge to reopen a case if a person’s circumstances have changed.But without such a stay, ICE can conclude that the legal process is over and begin deportation as soon as possible, depending on the logistics of sending the individuals to their native country.An individual in custody without such an order of deportation may have more options — and time.The detainee can apply for asylum or other such programs. Even if that relief isn’t available, immigration courts are often backlogged and arrestees have several rounds of appeals to exhaust, a process that can take some time.That said, they may have to spend some or all of that time in detention, where many who lack legal representation simply agree to be deported anyway.No. There are two kinds of restrictions on the places where immigration officers can make an arrest: legal and self-imposed.Like other law enforcement agencies, ICE must respect constitutional protections, meaning its officers can’t enter a private residence without consent or a warrant, according to Grisel Ruiz, a staff lawyer with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center.Those include schools, places of worship, hospitals and public demonstrations. (In response to criticism, ICE recently said it would also put more limits on when it will make arrests in courthouses.)But that voluntary policy is just that: “It’s not binding, it’s not law,” Ms. Ruiz said.And she and other immigrant advocates say that while the agency may avoid making arrests at those sensitive locations, it continues to arrest people near them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Depending on the stage of the deportation process and criminal history, some individuals are allowed to go free on the condition that they commit to voluntarily leave the country within a specified period.ICE agents are given discretion to decide whether someone should be deported.Community pressure, and media attention, has swayed the agency in the past, too.But, under President Trump, ICE is using that discretion in favor of detainees less often. The administration’s position is that anyone who is in the United States illegally is a target for deportation. In the last few years of the Obama administration, on the other hand, agents were told to prioritize some groups, like serious criminals and recent arrivals.So while family, personal circumstances or contributions to society may be considered, they are less likely to help an individual’s cause now than they once were.The Trump administration considers being in the United States without proper documentation to be a crime, a stricter approach than in the past, when immigration offenses were often thought of more like civil infractions.That means that the agency takes seriously cases in which the only significant mark on someone’s record is a failure to comply with a deportation order, as it says was true of Mr. Jamal.But a lack of a criminal record, apart from immigration offenses, can help to persuade the government to let individuals remain free while they await an administrative decision about their status.While some immigrants, like asylum seekers, are protected from deportation as they await a decision on their status, merely applying does not provide protection. Without a court order or a government commitment to pause deportation, the only thing that matters is a person’s current legal status.But attempts to achieve legal status can help to persuade a judge that an individual need not be detained, says Jesse Lloyd, an Oakland immigration lawyer who is the vice chairman of the American Immigration Lawyers Association’s ICE committee.“A history of otherwise complying with immigration authorities is at least a good indication that someone’s not a flight risk,” he said.Go to Home Page »A spokesman for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement has resigned, saying that he could no longer “bear the burden” of spreading falsehoods on behalf of the Trump administration.The spokesman, James Schwab, who had worked for the agency’s San Francisco Division, told news outlets Monday that his decision was prompted by false statements made by the agency on Feb. 27 and repeated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions last week.“I asked them to change the information,” he told The Chronicle, referring to the 864 people to whom the statement alluded. “I told them that the information was wrong, they asked me to deflect, and I didn’t agree with that. Then I took some time and I quit.”He explained that the enforcement agency would have been unlikely to capture all of the roughly 1,000 undocumented immigrants in the area that it had targeted, and that it was incorrect to identify those who were not detained as threats to public safety.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We were never going to pick up that many people,” he said. “To say that 100 percent are dangerous criminals on the street, or that those people weren’t picked up because of the misguided actions of the mayor, is just wrong.”Mr. Schwab did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Tuesday. He resigned last week, according to CNN.“I just couldn’t bear the burden — continuing on as a representative of the agency and charged with upholding integrity, knowing that information was false,” he told CNN, adding that in his 16 years of experience in government he had never been asked to deflect when he knew something was inaccurate.“Our democracy depends on public servants who act with integrity and hold transparency in the highest regard,” she added.Mr. Schwab told CNN that he thought Ms. Schaaf’s actions were “misguided,” but that blaming her “for 800 dangerous people out there is just false.”ICE responded to Mr. Schwab’s comments in a statement, saying, “Even one criminal alien on the street can put public safety at risk.”“As Director Homan stated, while we can’t put a number on how many targets avoided arrest due to the mayor’s warning, it clearly had an impact,” the statement said. “While we disagree with Mr. Schwab on this issue, we appreciate his service and wish him well.”“If anyone wants to have a public argument over precisely how many dangerous criminal aliens eluded arrest because of the mayor’s irresponsible actions, we are happy to have that debate,” Sarah Isgur Flores, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said in a statement.Katie Benner contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byFrom polling like this you would imagine that recent immigration reform efforts would have worked in that middle space, trying to tweak the mix of new arrivals without increasing the immigration rate. But instead, most recent attempts at a “comprehensive” bill have sought not only amnesty for illegal immigrants, but an increase in low-skilled immigration, above the already brisk post-1960s pace.Bipartisan bills dramatically at odds with the shape of public opinion are generally bad for both parties. And sure enough, the attempts at immigration reform under George W. Bush and Barack Obama helped give us both a much-reduced Democratic Party and a G.O.P. helmed by Donald Trump.They also helped give us the new reform proposal authored by Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia and endorsed by the president. The Cotton-Perdue bill is written for the 35 percent of Americans who want less immigration, which it achieves by creating a points-based system for applications (with points for English proficiency, education, a good job offer, and so on), limiting family-based migration, and cutting the number of legal immigrants we take by roughly half.That’s because a system that focused more on skills and education and job prospects would automatically put less pressure on wages at the bottom. It would increase immigration’s economic benefits, and reduce its fiscal costs. And it would presumably bring in a more diverse pool of migrants, making balkanization and self-segregation less likely.So that’s probably the immigration compromise we’re waiting for: a version of the Cotton-Perdue points system, the shift to high-skilled recruitment, that keeps the overall immigration rate close to where it is today.But there are two obvious impediments.The first problem is that the Cotton-Perdue proposal is associated with a president whose ascent was darkened by race-baiting, and whose ability to broker any deal is seriously in doubt. By making immigration central to his campaign, Trump helped make this bill possible. But his campaign rhetoric also makes it more polarizing than its substance deserves, and his incompetence makes its legislative prospects dim.That’s how we got the strange spectacle of CNN’s Jim Acosta, ostensibly a nonpartisan reporter, hectoring the White House’s Stephen Miller last week with the claim that Emma Lazarus’s poem about the “huddled masses” means that the U.S. cannot be self-interested in screening new arrivals.It was a telling moment, as was Acosta’s self-righteousness afterward. Liberalism used to recognize the complexities of immigration; now it sees only a borderless utopia waiting, and miscreants and racists standing in the way.As long as these problems persist — a right marred by bigotry, a liberalism maddened by utopianism — it is hard to imagine a reasonable deal.But as long as a deal eludes us, the chaotic system we have is well designed to make both derangements that much more powerful, both problems that much worse.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorThe first month of the Trump administration has already changed the direction of the immigration debate, with many more changes coming soon. So far, executive orders and deportations dominate the discussion. But the fight over how many refugees to admit or how best to vet those refugees obscures what the debate is really about.Changes in social policy do not make everyone better off, and immigration policy is no exception. I am a refugee, having fled Cuba as a child in 1962. Not only do I have great sympathy for the immigrant’s desire to build a better life, I am also living proof that immigration policy can benefit some people enormously.But I am also an economist, and am very much aware of the many trade-offs involved. Inevitably, immigration does not improve everyone’s well-being. There are winners and losers, and we will need to choose among difficult options. The improved lives of the immigrants come at a price. How much of a price are the American people willing to pay, and exactly who will pay it?Even the most conservative estimate of the fiscal shortfall wipes out much of the $50 billion increase in native wealth. Remarkably, the size of the native economic pie did not change much after immigration increased the number of workers by more than 15 percent. But the split of the pie certainly changed, giving far less to workers and much more to employers.The trade-offs become even more difficult when we think about the long-term integration of the children and grandchildren of today’s immigrants. Many look back at the melting pot in 20th-century America and assume that history will repeat itself. That’s probably wishful thinking. That melting pot operated in a particular economic, social and political context, and it is doubtful that those conditions can be reproduced today.Europe is already confronting the difficulties produced by the presence of unassimilated populations. If nothing else, the European experience shows that there is no universal law that guarantees integration even after a few generations. We, too, will need to confront the trade-off between short-term economic gains and the long-term costs of a large, unassimilated minority.Identifying the trade-offs is only a first step toward a more sensible immigration policy. We also need some general principles, combining common sense and compassion.First and foremost, we must reduce illegal immigration. It has had a corrosive impact, paralyzing discussion on all aspects of immigration reform. A wall along the Mexican border may signal that we are getting serious, but many undocumented immigrants enter the country legally and then overstay their visas. A national electronic system (such as E-Verify) mandating that employers certify new hires, along with fines and criminal penalties for lawbreaking businesses, might go a long way toward stemming the flow.But what about the 11-million-plus undocumented immigrants already here? A vast majority have led peaceful lives and established deep roots in our communities. Their sudden deportation would not represent the compassionate America that many of us envision.Perhaps it’s time for some benign neglect. Many will eventually qualify for visas because they have married American citizens or have native-born children. Rather than fight over a politically impossible amnesty, we could accelerate the granting of family-preference visas to that population.Finally, we need to choose between highly skilled and less-skilled applicants. High-skill immigrants, who pay higher taxes and receive fewer services and can potentially expand the frontier of knowledge, are more profitable for us. But giving an opportunity to the huddled masses is part of what makes our country exceptional.Regardless of the allocation, employers should not walk away with all the gains, and workers should not suffer all the losses. We need to ensure a more equitable sharing of the gains and losses among the American people.He added, “We are going to have an immigration system that works, but one that works for the American people.”Many of my colleagues in the academic community — and many of the elite opinion-makers in the news media — recoil when they hear that immigration should serve the interests of Americans. Their reaction is to label such thinking as racist and xenophobic, and to marginalize anyone who agrees.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAt the height of the 2016 election, exaggerated reports of a juvenile sex crime brought a media maelstrom to Twin Falls — one the Idaho city still hasn’t recovered from.“We have been made aware of a situation,” said the first speaker, an older man with a scraggly white beard who had hobbled up to the lectern. “An alleged assault of a minor child and we can’t get any information on it. Apparently, it’s been indicated that the perpetrators were foreign Muslim youth that conducted this — I guess it was a rape.” Brown recognized the man as Terry Edwards. About a year earlier, after The Times-News reported that Syrian refugees would very likely be resettled in Twin Falls, Edwards joined a movement to shut the resettlement program down. The group circulated a petition to put the proposal before voters. They failed to get enough signatures to force a referendum, but Brown was struck by how much support around town the movement attracted. In bars after work, he began to overhear conversations about the dangers of Islam. One night, he heard a man joke about dousing the entrance to the local mosque with pig’s blood.After he finished watching the video, Brown called the police chief, Craig Kingsbury, to get more information about the case. Kingsbury said that he couldn’t discuss it and that the police reports were sealed because minors were involved. Brown made a couple phone calls: to the mayor and to his colleague at the paper who covers crime. He pieced together that 12 days earlier, three children had been discovered partly clothed inside a shared laundry room at the apartment complex where they lived. There were two boys, a 7-year-old and a 10-year-old, and a 5-year-old girl. The 7-year-old boy was accused of attempting some kind of sex act with the 5-year-old, and the 10-year-old had used a cellphone borrowed from his older brother to record it. The girl was American and, like most people in Twin Falls, white. The boys were refugees; Brown wasn’t sure from where. In his article about the meeting, Brown seems to anticipate that the police chief’s inability to elaborate was not going to sit well with the people whose testimony he had just watched.That weekend, Brown was on his way to see a movie when he received a Facebook message from Jim Dalos Jr., a 52-year-old known to Twin Falls journalists and police as Scanner Man. Dalos is disabled; he works six hours a week as a dishwasher at a pizzeria but spends most of his time in his apartment, sitting in a reclining chair and drinking Diet Pepsi out of a 52-ounce plastic mug, voraciously consuming news. He reads the local paper, old issues of which litter his living-room floor, and keeps the television blaring — usually Fox News. He got his nickname because he constantly monitors an old police scanner, a gift he received as a teenager from his father, and often calls in tips to the media based on what he hears. He also happens to live at the apartment complex, Fawnbrook, where the laundry-room incident occurred.Dalos told Brown that he had seen the police around Fawnbrook and that the victim’s mother told him that the boys had been arrested. He also pointed Brown to a couple of Facebook groups that were created in response to the crime. Brown scrolled through them on his cellphone and saw links flying back and forth with articles that said that the little girl had been gang raped at knife point, that the perpetrators were Syrian refugees and that their fathers had celebrated with them afterward by giving them high fives. The stories also claimed that the City Council and the police department were conspiring to bury the crime.Over the weekend, Brown plowed through his daily packs of cigarettes as he watched hundreds, then thousands, of people joining the groups. Their panic appeared to be piqued by a mass shooting, the deadliest in American history, that had just occurred at Pulse nightclub in Orlando. The perpetrator had declared allegiance to ISIS. The commenters also posted stories that claimed refugees were responsible for a rash of rapes in Europe and that a similar phenomenon in the United States was imminent. “My girl is blond and blue-eyed,” one woman wrote. “I am extremely worried about her safety.”The details of the Fawnbrook case, as it became known, were still unclear to Brown, but he was skeptical of what he was reading. For one thing, he knew from his own previous reporting that no Syrians had been resettled in Twin Falls after all. He woke up early on Monday to get a head start on clarifying things as much as possible in order to write a follow-up article. Before he got into the office, a friend texted him, telling him to check the Drudge Report. At the top, a headline screamed: “REPORT: Syrian ‘Refugees’ Rape Little Girl at Knifepoint in Idaho.”Most Twin Falls residents are churchgoing, and about half of those are Mormons. Locally owned stores and restaurants are generally closed on Sundays, and the city has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1936. Liberals often register as Republicans just to have an opportunity to participate in the electoral process, by voting in the primaries. If a Republican is going to win regardless, the thinking goes, they would at least like to play a role in deciding which one prevails.The same qualities that bind the townspeople together can, in turn, be alienating to newcomers. The refugee community has begun to experience this effect as its demographic makeup has changed. Over the past decade and a half, as conflict spread across North Africa and the Middle East, Twin Falls started to resettle larger numbers of refugees with darker skin who follow an unfamiliar religion — two things that make it difficult to blend into a town that is 80 percent white.On a national scale, an ascendant network of anti-Muslim activists and provocateurs has exploited the fears brought on by these changes, finding a platform and a receptive audience online. The narrative they espouse — on blogs with names like Jihad Watch — is that America, currently 1 percent Muslim, is in the midst of an Islamic invasion. Central to the worldview of these bloggers, some of whom have celebrity-size social-media followings, is that Muslims have a propensity toward sexual violence. They seize on any news item that bolsters this notion. Perhaps their biggest touchstone is an incident that took place in Cologne, Germany, on New Year’s Eve in 2015. Mobs of men, many of them asylum seekers from the Middle East, pick-pocketed and groped more than a thousand women in and around a train station. The German police acknowledged the incident had taken place only under pressure, as the women’s stories began to leak out through the media. This established, for these activists, the contours of a narrative that they believe has been repeating itself. The Fawnbrook incident quickly drew their interest.What happened in Twin Falls was sadly somewhat commonplace but not in the way the activists believed. The local Police Department investigates sex crimes on a weekly basis, and in about half a dozen of those that proceed to court each year, the victims and the accused are both minors. “If it’s younger kids, it’s them being curious,” J.R. Paredez, the lead investigator on the case, explained to me. Some children who act out sexually have been victimized themselves, he said, while others have been exposed to explicit material at home or at school or, as is more common recently, on their cellphones. “As they start to get older, there’s more of the actual sexual component to it.”Two weeks after the incident, the boys were charged with lewd and lascivious behavior against a minor. (The 14-year-old who lent his cellphone to the boys was initially charged with the same crime. He was not present in the laundry room, and his charge was eventually reduced to make him an accessory.) In Idaho, this statute applies to physical contact “done with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of such person, such minor child, or third party.” Paredez said that the cellphone video made clear what specifically had happened between the children, but that he couldn’t show it to the reporters who asked him about it, because doing so would have constituted criminal distribution of child pornography. He called most of the details that he read about the case on the internet “100 percent false, like not even close to being accurate.” (The family of the accused declined to comment.)As more time passed without a solid account of what happened inside the laundry room, lurid rumors continued to surface online and came to dominate conversations in grocery stores and at school events. And while the City Council members did not have control over the case, the bloggers who wrote about it placed much of the blame on them.On the Monday when Twin Falls was the top story on Drudge, the City Council held another weekly meeting. Normally only a handful of people attend, and Brown is one of the few reporters among them. But that night, the auditorium filled until there was standing room only, and television news crews appeared from Boise and other nearby cities. When it came time for public comments, one man got up and praised the city’s handling of the case, followed by more than a dozen others who laid into the council members. Terry Edwards handed each of them a small copy of the Constitution and told them to do their jobs. A woman named Vicky Davis, her hair in a satiny white bob, stood up and proclaimed that Islam had declared jihad on America.“They are not compatible with our culture,” she said. “They hate us. They don’t want to be Americans. They don’t want to assimilate. What do you need to see? What more proof do you need?”This was a highly unusual meeting, but Brown wasn’t exactly surprised. Several months earlier, when the anti-refugee activists began to organize, he started reading up to try to better understand their views. He picked up a book by Ann Coulter and began to follow the anti-refugee blogs. At the meeting, he felt as if he were hearing all that he had read being repeated aloud by his neighbors.Kingsbury, the police chief, read from a statement while fumbling with a thicket of microphones piled onto the lectern by visiting reporters. In between exasperated breaths, he explained why he could not disclose the details of the incident but said that he could address some of the misinformation that was spreading online. There was no evidence of a knife, he said, or of any celebration afterward or of a cover-up, and no Syrians were involved: The boys were from Sudan and Iraq. “I’m a kid who grew up in Idaho,” he said. “Law enforcement takes these types of allegations very seriously. However, we can’t act on them within an hour. It’s not like a crime show.” He told the audience that the boys had been arrested, to applause.But online, Kingsbury’s words only inflamed the activists more. Just after midnight, someone posted his work email address on Jihad Watch, along with those of the council members and the mayor. A commenter on another website called The Muslim Issue posted the phone numbers and email addresses for the town’s government officials, the head of the refugee-resettlement center and some administrators at the college, which runs the refugee resettlement program. From there, the information spread to more blogs and to the comments sections of far-right news outlets with massive audiences.By 9 the next morning, messages were pouring into the inbox of the mayor of Twin Falls, Shawn Barigar, nearly every minute. Barigar grew up in a neighboring town and went to work in Boise as a television news anchor before moving back to start a family. His even keel and the air of sophistication he picked up while living in a comparatively big city have made him popular politically. He is left of the town on many social issues, which has made some of his constituents suspicious of him. But most of the people who contacted him that summer were from other states and even other countries. Some people demanded that the city pay for a new car and apartment for the victim and her family. Others said that local officials’ attempts to correct inaccurate details about the incident were veiled efforts to suggest that no crime had occurred at all, in order to protect the refugees. Others accused him of being a “globalist,” a word that has taken on many definitions but in this case meant he was part of a vast, arcane conspiracy. They believed that establishment politicians wanted to turn red states like Idaho blue by starting wars and then importing refugees from those war zones as cheap labor who would not only displace American workers but also reliably vote Democratic.Many of the people who wrote to the mayor had a much simpler goal: to unleash their hatred of Islam. One message, with the subject line “Muslims,” said that refugees were committing rapes and hit-and-runs and urinating on women and that the mayor was guilty of treason. “It’s out of the bag, [expletive],” it read. “We will and are holding you responsible for any and all crimes committed by these quote refugees. No courts. No police. Just us. You will answer to us in the darkness of night.”The next day, Camille Barigar, the mayor’s wife, arrived in her office at the college, where she ran the performing-arts center, and started listening to her voice mail. In a calm, measured voice, a man who sounded as if he was reading from a script went on for nearly four minutes. “I wonder, Miss Barigar, if your residence was posted online and your whereabouts identified, how you would feel if half a dozen Muslim men raped and sodomized you, Miss Barigar, and when you tried to scream, broke every tooth in your mouth,” he said. “And then I wonder how you’d feel if, when you went to the Twin Falls Police Department, they told you to run along, that this is simply cultural diversity.”The caller said that life was “becoming difficult” in the United States, just as it had in England. He referenced Jo Cox, a British member of Parliament who spoke out in support of refugees and later “met with opposition in the form of a bullet to the head.”“She’s dead now,” he said. “They’ve buried her.”Then 50, Stranahan was relatively new to journalism. He had spent a few decades as a television producer and a graphic illustrator in Los Angeles, and on the side he shot erotic photography, which is how he met his wife. Stranahan’s transition into journalism began during the television writers’ strike of 2007 and 2008. To keep himself entertained, he created parody political s and posted them on YouTube. One of the first was a satirical Rudy Giuliani ad, asking Republican primary voters to support him because he had taken good care of his mistress, offering her private security courtesy of the N.Y.P.D., whereas Mitt Romney “didn’t even bother” to take on a paramour. Stranahan says that within weeks, the videos led to invitations to appear on CNN and to meet with a vice president at NBC and to a job offer, which he accepted, writing political comedy for The Huffington Post.In college, Stranahan was a libertarian and even attended Ayn Rand’s funeral. But when he moved to California, he became a liberal, vehemently opposing the Iraq war and the presidency of George W. Bush. He voted for Barack Obama in 2008. Two years later, Stranahan interviewed Andrew Breitbart, a fellow Huffington Post alumnus, for an article he was writing about Jon Stewart’s Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear. They spoke for more than three hours, bonding over their shared love of Depeche Mode. Eventually, Breitbart became Stranahan’s mentor, converted him to conservatism and offered him a job. In 2011, Breitbart took Stranahan to the Conservative Political Action Conference and introduced him to Michele Bachmann, who, in Stranahan’s recollection, convinced him that she had uncovered disturbing details about Islam that no one in the establishment was willing to talk about. Stranahan says this conversation was the genesis of his concerns about the religion.Stranahan arrived in Idaho in August, after covering the national party conventions. The sealed nature of the case prevented any journalist from an exhaustive examination, and the accused and the victim’s families refused to speak to the mainstream media. But Stranahan thrived in the void of facts. He was granted one of the few interviews with the victim’s family, but his account of the crime offered little more information than others’ had — and far more inaccuracies, according to the police and the county prosecutor. He described what took place as a “horrific gang rape” and wrote graphic details about the incident, which the Twin Falls Police say are untrue. On Breitbart radio, Stranahan openly wondered whether Barigar, the mayor, was “a big, you know, Shariah supporter.” And he suggested repeatedly that mass rapes by refugees had occurred in Europe and were inevitably coming to the United States. “If you want to wait until your country turns into France or Cologne, Germany. If you want to wait, you can wait,” he warned the audience. “But if you want to watch it and stop it now, you’ve got a chance to do it in November.”Stranahan says his Breitbart editors sent him to Twin Falls to report on the “Muslim takeover” of the town. (Breitbart denies this and says it’s “absurd.”) But he soon became enamored of a grander theory about what was happening in southern Idaho: globalism. He wrote that local businesses received government kickbacks for employing foreigners instead of Americans. (Stranahan did not cite any evidence of this, and it is untrue, according to the state Department of Labor.) And he often referred to a Syrian refugee crisis, though no Syrians were ever resettled there. Then, to bring the story full circle, he claimed these Muslim refugees were being used to replace American workers and that the government, big business and law enforcement were either conspiring to conceal the sexual-assault case or intentionally looking the other way, in order to keep the machine turning.“Bottom line, this is bad for business,” he told me in an interview last winter, explaining his interpretation of the city officials’ rationale: “ ‘I’m not really going to look into this too deeply because if I find out the truth, if I discover what actually happened, if I figure out the truth, it’s not really good for business.’ ” Stranahan believed that Chobani, a Greek-yogurt company, was at the center of the scheme. Breitbart had been covering the company for months, ever since the owner, Hamdi Ulukaya, a Turkish-born businessman, made a speech at the World Economic Forum at Davos encouraging other chief executives to pledge financial and political support to refugees.While he was in town, Stranahan embedded with critics of the refugee program. They drove him to some of his interviews and to the yogurt factory to shoot drone footage. Stranahan doesn’t get around well on his own in part because he has been mostly blind in one eye since grade school, when a neighborhood kid threw a rock at him, shattering his right optic nerve. Rather than a round pupil, his is jagged-edged, and so large that it nearly covers his iris. He shuffles when he walks because of neuropathic foot pain from diabetes, which he regulates by eating a ketogenic diet, usually one meal a day, consisting entirely of protein and fat. In Twin Falls, he subsisted most days on blackened chicken from Popeyes.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.During the three months he was in Twin Falls, City Council members refused his interview requests, leaving him stuck inside an echo chamber with the activists, which he amplified online. When I was in Twin Falls, I found myself empathizing: These same activists refused to speak with me. One of the most outspoken among them is a woman named Julie DeWolfe, who lives atop a grassy hill 20 minutes outside town and who spent significant time with Stranahan. When I went there to ask for an interview, she came outside with several barking dogs and told me to leave. “The company you work for is not trustworthy,” she said.As the summer came to a close, The Times-News was bombarded with threatening phone calls and email from all over. After it received a threat that was deemed credible enough to engage the F.B.I., the editor of the paper told Brown and the other reporters to conduct their interviews outside the office and ordered the entire staff to walk in pairs when going out to their cars. For months, the reporters covered protests around town, which were widely hyped on social media but, for the most part, sparsely attended. At least once the Police Department deployed plainclothes officers into the crowds, with instructions to look after the journalists. Later, it turned out that fake Facebook accounts linked to the Russian government helped to spread stories about Twin Falls and even organized one of the rallies there. The event was also poorly attended but is the first known Russian attempt to spark a demonstration on American soil.The phone and email attacks continued through the fall and spiked each time a new conspiracy theory was posted online. One council member told me that she gained 15 pounds from the stress. At night, Shawn Barigar would lie down with his iPad and spend hours reading stories that called him a crook, a liar or an ISIS sympathizer. He had to shut down his Twitter account after someone accused him of having been convicted of sexual assault. Before he could debunk the myth, the post had spread, leaving untold numbers of constituents under the impression that he was a rapist. He stopped sleeping and struggled to focus at work or to be present with his family. He and his wife say they bickered all summer.“It was like being in a hole,” he told me, his eyes welling up with tears. “It was all-consuming.”He expressed no contrition about the reporting he did in Twin Falls, though many of the conclusions that he drew on the radio and online have been debunked. Still, many of the outlets that covered Twin Falls made only minor tweaks to their stories or did nothing at all. Many of the falsehoods that were written about the Fawnbrook case still appear at the top of a Google search of the city.The most transparent course-correction resulted from a lawsuit against Alex Jones, the publisher of InfoWars, for its misleading stories about Chobani. After initially vowing to fight the yogurt company in court, Jones retracted several stories and issued an apology in order to make a lawsuit go away. Stranahan said that his editors forced him off the Twin Falls story during the fall and suggested that they had done so under threat from Chobani. (Breitbart denies this.)Stranahan and I spoke a handful of times over the course of the last year, each time for several hours. Talking with him feels like being inside one of his conspiracy theories. When you ask him a question, he begins to answer and then immediately swerves in a different direction, bouncing like a pinball between topics that barely connect to one another — from the Fawnbrook case to clitorectomies and stoning, then Syrian refugees, then a prominent Wahhabi cleric — and seems to increase in velocity as he ricochets off them. It’s an exhausting exercise, but also a fascinating one. He seems perpetually on the precipice of pulling the argument together, sparking just enough curiosity that you let him keep going. Stranahan uses this talent most effectively in his work, painting himself as a champion of people who are understandably uninformed about other cultures and religions based on their own experiences. “It’s just easy to brand these people as a bunch of Islamophobic, racist yokels,” he told me, with a hint of disgust in his voice. “I just don’t like it.”Stranahan struck me as passionate about his stories; not about their veracity but about the freedom he and the critics of refugee resettlement should have to speculate as they wanted without being belittled by the fact-mongering mainstream. When I reached him by phone this June, he told me he was planning to travel back to Idaho for more reporting on Fawnbrook, now that he was no longer constrained by his editors at Breitbart. He told me that he believed that he had uncovered another dimension of his globalist theory related to Chobani’s participation in the federal school-lunch program. He felt compelled to follow up on the earlier coverage, because he was frustrated that Alex Jones and others were forced to retract their stories and apologize under pressure. “I don’t like people getting shut up like that,” he said. “Even if their stories have problems, I don’t like journalists getting shut down.”I started to ask why anyone should be allowed to publish false information for the express purpose of angering their audience and pushing them further away from those with whom they disagree, but Stranahan cut me off. “Hey, I’m walking into the White House right now,” he said. He had just arrived for a press briefing with the president’s spokesman. “Let me call you back.”Late one Monday night in June I received a phone call from Dalos, the Scanner Man. He asked if I had heard about the “fireworks flying around Twin Falls.” The news of the boys’ fate had somehow reached the public. “The suspects didn’t go to jail or nothing,” he said, adding that people in town were “irate.” Facebook posts about the story were again flooding his feed. “They’re blaming it on Muslim law,” he said. One of the articles circulating, from a site called Bare Naked Islam, included a photograph of the judge in the case with a large red arrow pointing toward his head, next to the caption “Corrupt Judge.” Another article published the judge’s home address and phone number, inciting another flood of harassment, a year after the initial onslaught.Shawn and Camille Barigar’s bickering has subsided, but they have discovered that they disagree over whether Islamic teachings conflict with American social norms. “I can’t take the leap,” Shawn told me, “that because you are Muslim therefore you are reading the Quran verbatim, and you’re going to go out and do genital mutilation.” Camille said she supported the local resettlement program but thought that her husband’s unwillingness to even consider cultural differences or acknowledge any nuance was naïve. “I think we’ve got to be careful,” she said. “And I don’t want to be afraid to talk about it entirely or, like, sound racist.” It is precisely this discomfort that provides an opening for people like Stranahan to dominate the conversation.Part of the reason a fear of Islam has persisted in Twin Falls is because the local leadership refused to defuse it, according to Matt Christensen, 36, the editor of The Times-News. While Brown wrote articles that sorted out the truth about the Fawnbrook case, Christensen was publishing commentary that castigated the people who were spreading falsehoods. He told me that he had closed-door meetings with city officials, in which he asked them to write guest editorials doing the same, but none of them did. Christensen suspected that they were afraid of one of the most reliable political dangers in the region, the same force that leads would-be Democrats there to register as Republicans: being outflanked on the right is the quickest way to lose your job.“Behind closed doors, they would all tell you they were pro-refugee, and we wanted them to step forward and make that declaration in a public arena, and it just never really happened,” he told me. “That was frustrating to us especially at the beginning because it really felt like the newspaper was out there all alone.” He continued: “There were days where we felt like, Godammit, what are we doing here? We write a story and it’s going to reach 50,000 people. Breitbart writes a story and it’s going to reach 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 million people. What kind of a voice do we have in this debate?”Caitlin Dickerson is a national reporter for The Times. She has covered changes in immigration policy and often profiles the lives of immigrants, including those without legal status.Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorThe senators, whose bill is endorsed by President Trump, argue that America is experiencing abnormally high immigration; that these immigrants are hurting American wages; and that their bill would prioritize skilled immigrants, the way Canada does, thus making the United States more competitive internationally. These talking points are pure fiction.Rather than cutting immigration, Congress should raise the employment-based quotas, which it has not adjusted since 1990 — when the United States had some 77 million fewer people and the economy was half the size it is now. A smart reform would double green cards and peg future work visas to economic growth, responding to market forces rather than political whims.Smart reforms, however, require that Congress first understand the basic facts: America has not seen a deluge of immigration. Low-skilled American-born workers have not faced more competition for jobs. Other countries accept more immigrants per capita. Until these facts penetrate the halls of the Capitol, the immigration debate will continue to be mired in ignorant proposals like this.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEvery now and then you get the impression that Australia is desperate to be under grave threat.It was a shocking yet predictable moment. Shocking because it seemed like a sudden escalation for Mr. Turnbull, who was once a critic of Mr. Abbott’s tendency to overhype the threat of terrorism. Predictable because in so much of the world the appearance of being tough on terrorism has become the most common political currency.Mr. Turnbull’s plan is to merge the intelligence agency, the federal police and the immigration department into a single bureau headed by the current immigration minister, Peter Dutton. This takes a sizable chunk of responsibility from the attorney general, although that position (encouragingly) retains an oversight role over the security services in the new agency.But putting aside its shortcomings in preventing attacks, the British approach may not work here for another reason: Australia faces a different kind of terrorist threat. And Australian authorities already have a strong record of arresting terrorists and of disrupting locally planned plots.No Australian terrorist attacks have been mass casualty incidents, not one has been the work of a sophisticated network, and all have used crude weaponry such as knives and guns rather than advanced bombs. There is no Australian equivalent of the 2005 coordinated suicide attacks on the London Tube and buses or the more recent Manchester attack.Australian authorities may suspect that we could some day face the kind of sophisticated plots that Britain has dealt with, and assume that the British approach is the best way to handle those threats. But no one in Mr. Turnbull’s government has made that case.What is Mr. Turnbull thinking? The answer should be obvious: politics.Between his low standing in the polls and the insurgency he faces from the right wing of his own party (led by the man he deposed as leader, Tony Abbott, who now takes to the airwaves at least once a week to criticize his successor’s leadership), Mr. Turnbull’s position is extremely weak. He needs a prominent right-wing ally, and Peter Dutton fills this role.There’s a more telling insight offered by the man who has lost most in this, and who was among the most vocal opponents of it within the Turnbull cabinet: Attorney General George Brandis. Pressured to support this reorganization publicly, Mr. Brandis declared the change ensures that a minister will “give 100 percent of his time and his attention to national security, both domestic, national security and border security.”But the idea of a home affairs minister focused on national security makes sense only if we assume immigration is entirely a security problem. This points to the true ideological import of this newly formed department.Australia began this century with a Department for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs. Back then, the department’s slogan was “Enriching Australia through Migration.” Just over a decade ago it dropped the multiculturalism portfolio entirely, creating instead a Department of Immigration and Citizenship. Now it’s to be rolled into a national security department. Thus, we can chart Australia’s public conception of migration from being a celebrated aspect of its multicultural character to a civic idea whose highest ultimate expression is citizenship to a threat to be managed.When the story of the Turnbull government is written, he will have been the prime minister who finally debased immigration in the Australian political imagination. The image last week of the prime minister draped awkwardly in military power will surely accompany that chapter. And those gas masks won’t look much like liberalism. Most likely they won’t look much like success either.Waleed Aly is a columnist and broadcaster and a politics lecturer at Monash University in Melbourne.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBut in the waning days of the race to become New Jersey’s next governor, Lt. Gov. Kim Guadagno, a Republican, has taken a sharp turn to the right as polls show that she is well behind her Democratic opponent, Philip D. Murphy, a former Wall Street banker.During the last debate, Ms. Guadagno referred to undocumented immigrants as “illegal aliens’’ who were potentially violent criminals, as she described in gruesome details two crimes committed by suspects who were in the country illegally. And on Monday, her campaign proposed a ban on so-called sanctuary cities that would “give the governor authority to withhold funding or issue fines to sanctuary cities harboring violent criminals.”Ms. Guadagno’s comments regarding immigration came after a recent  by her campaign that alludes to a crime in Newark 10 years ago — the execution-style killings of three young people in a schoolyard — and highlights one of the accused as being an “illegal alien and child rapist.’’ The televised ad insinuates that those are the types of crimes that could happen if Mr. Murphy were elected because of his support for shielding some undocumented immigrants from federal immigration officers.Ms. Guadagno’s more conservative approach places her at odds with more moderate Republicans in New Jersey, but her willingness to embrace the kind of divisive politics she has avoided for much of her career appears to be an 11th-hour appeal to her party’s base in the hopes that it will drive up turnout in what has been a very low-interest race.It is a tall order in New Jersey, where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by more than 800,000. For Republicans to win a statewide campaign, they usually need to win over many unaffiliated voters whose views tend not to skew too far to the left or the right.But, if nothing else, the ad did get Ms. Guadagno noticed in an election that has gotten little attention. The ad captured headlines across the country and it was shown on newscasts even before the Guadagno campaign had spent money to show it on television.The ad has appeared almost exclusively on cable channels, according to Advertising Analytics, a company that tracks advertising. Ads on most cable channels are often less expensive and reach a smaller, more targeted audience.When asked for comment about the decision to target immigration, a spokesman for Ms. Guadagno instead focused on Mr. Murphy.“It’s Phil Murphy who is out of the mainstream by running on a platform to raise taxes and make New Jersey a sanctuary state,” said Ricky Diaz, the communication director for the Guadagno campaign.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For most of her campaign, Ms. Guadagno has been focused on the state’s property taxes, which are the highest in the country. During her victory speech on the night of the Republican primary in June, Ms. Guadagno made a bold pledge not to run for re-election if she failed to lower property taxes during her first term. She pinned her promise to the top of her Twitter page for months.While her tough stance on undocumented immigrants may be a move designed to reach conservative Republican voters, it could also be risky.A focus on immigration and Mr. Murphy’s recent comment about New Jersey becoming a sanctuary state “may temporarily sway some voters, especially this late in the game with only a couple of weeks to go,” Ms. Koning said, but “it may not be the driving force that Guadagno hopes to push people to the polls.”Ms. Guadagno has not always sought out the party’s conservative wing.In August, she offered a curt response when asked if there was a chance she would visit the president when he was on vacation in New Jersey.And she holds positions that members of the more conservative wing of the Republican Party would find anathema. From climate change (she supports renewable energy investment) to abortion (she has been a supporter of abortion rights her entire career), Ms. Guadagno has not shown a rigid adherence to the party’s platform or conservative ethos.She has referred to her plan to cap property taxes — by limiting school property taxes at 5 percent of a family’s annual income with the state making up the difference — as taking a page “out of the Democratic playbook.”Now, any language that makes a positive reference to Democrats has vanished, which is not surprising at the end of her campaign. But what is notable is how Ms. Guadagno is giving top billing to immigration after spending so much time on a bread-and-butter issue like property taxes.Mr. Murphy said he has been taken aback by the ad and Ms. Guadagno’s shift toward immigration.“Yes it did surprise me, it 100 percent surprised me,” he said in a brief interview on Thursday before his rally with Mr. Obama. “Because I didn’t think she would do that, to be honest with you.”Go to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:Cases made in these terms are tantamount to saying that our society should admit immigrants primarily, if not exclusively, for our own benefit. By contrast, some of us are convinced, either for religious or humanitarian reasons, that every person in deep physical or psychological need is morally entitled to whatever help we can reasonably give. Refugees and asylum seekers have a prima facie moral entitlement to that help.Unquestionably, we as a society are unable to satisfy all such valid claims, but that does not diminish the claims’ validity. We have an obligation to seek ways to increase our ability to take in more of these people, even if it is economically or emotionally costly for us to do so.To the Editor:The Senate immigration bill that your editorial denounces is similar to what Barbara Jordan proposed while running a commission on immigration reform under President Bill Clinton.Ironically, if the recommendations of Ms. Jordan’s commission had been followed, Donald Trump, who campaigned chiefly on an immigration crackdown, would have probably never gained the White House.To the Editor:Your editorial opposing President Trump’s endorsement of a bill that would slash immigration limits is slightly off the mark. It asserts that this endorsement, like his opposition to transgender people serving in the military and his encouragement of overly aggressive police behavior, is primarily aimed at recapturing his base.This conjures an image of the president deliberately formulating political strategy, and it is far from obvious that our president is capable of such rational action. To the contrary, I believe that our president is the genuine article — a genuine nativist, a genuine bigot, a genuine bully. Although his positions may be pleasing to his base, they are primarily, as it is said, Trump being Trump.ALAN STEVENS, BELLPORT, N.Y.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe terrorist came into our country through what is called the "Diversity Visa Lottery Program," a Chuck Schumer beauty. I want merit based.The lottery offers one of the fastest paths to legal permanent residency, often in less than two years. Some one million people have been awarded green cards through the program. Unlike other immigrants who gain admission, winners of the lottery do not need to have a close relative living in the United States, or any special skill.It is indeed a little like hitting a lottery. Some years, the program has attracted nearly 15 million applications, but no more than 50,000 visas may be awarded.During the monthlong application period each fall, which is currently in full swing, the lottery creates a craze in countries where it is regarded as a ticket out of poverty and to the American dream.In the 1980s, Irish-American congressmen led by Brian Donnelly, a Democrat from Boston, drafted a temporary measure, which passed in 1986. It provided an alternative path to a green card for citizens of countries “adversely affected” by the 1965 reforms, including Ireland.In 1990, Mr. Schumer was the lead sponsor of a bill that, among many immigration provisions, would transform the temporary program into a permanent one. The proposal was included in a bill that ultimately passed, and the lottery was born.In its early years, most winners were European, but now about half hail from Africa. In 2016, Nepal, Egypt and Iran had the most recipients, according to the State Department. Uzbekistan, where Mr. Saipov emigrated from in 2010, ranked fifth last year, with 2,378 recipients. Over all, the program contributes about 5 percent of the approximately one million legal immigrants that enter the United States each year.The program is available to people around the globe, except in countries that already have large numbers of citizens immigrating through traditional means, including Mexico, China and India.No special skills are required. A high-school diploma suffices. There is no limit to how many years a person can enter the lottery, but no country can account for more than 7 percent of all visas issued in one year.At a nameless internet cafe in the middle of Dakar, Senegal, on Wednesday, about a dozen people filled out applications with the help of the owner, Ouseynou Diouf. Clients paid him about $10, two to four days’ worth of wages, for internet access and his guidance.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many were repeat customers, including Faly Senghor, 28, a fashion designer who said he was applying for the second time. His dream, he said, was to add “a taste of Africa fashion” to the fashion industry in the United States.There is no charge to enter. But winners must pay several hundred dollars in fees.In the spring, a government computer in Kentucky selects 100,000 entries for green card processing. At noon on May 15, millions of people around the world will click on the State Department website to find out if they are among them.Even then, a visa is not guaranteed. Winners are interviewed, undergo background checks and medical exams. Many are eliminated for failing to meet requirements and deadlines.Ultimately, 50,000 people — lottery winners, as well as spouses and minor children they want to bring over — are awarded visas, which entitle them to move to the United States as legal permanent residents, or green card holders. Like most others with green cards, they may apply for citizenship after five years.“Thanks to the green card lottery I was able to stay here, go to law school, marry my wife, have four beautiful children and build a law practice,” said Mr. Vrapi, whose Albuquerque-based firm has grown from two to 23 employees in four cities and four states.During public remarks at a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Saipov was “the primary point of contact for — and this is preliminarily — 23 people that came in, or potentially came in with him.” Green card holders in the United States can sponsor immediate family members to receive their own green cards, but it was not immediately clear what the 23 number referred to.The program had been under scrutiny even before the terrorist attack.Critics have long contended that the program poses security risks, brings in low-skilled immigrants and is unfair because it enables people with no connection to the United States to enter more easily than others.Among supporters of the program are members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who highlight that it helps Africans who otherwise would not have the opportunity to come to the United States.The program has been marred by fraud. One year an applicant submitted more than 2,000 entries. Other winners have sold themselves for marriage to bring a spouse to the United States.Mr. Trump, who has championed merit-based immigration intended to attract high-skilled workers, said Wednesday that he backed a Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration and kill the lottery.He also attacked Mr. Schumer. While the senator sponsored what became the diversity visa program, he also was part of the so-called Gang of Eight, a group of Republican and Democratic senators whose comprehensive immigration bill in 2013 included provisions to eliminate the diversity visa program and allocate the visas by merit. The bill died amid Republican opposition in the House to the bill’s provision to grant a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.Mr. Schumer said on Wednesday that the president was politicizing the tragedy.Pres Trump, instead of politicizing & dividing America which he always seems to do at times of national tragedy, should bring us together.Another member of the Gang of Eight, Senator Jeff Flake, the Arizona Republican who has frequently criticized the president, defended Mr. Schumer.An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect date for certain comments and events. The applicants appearing in an internet cafe in Dakar, Senegal, and the comments by Senator Chuck Schumer, occurred on Wednesday, not on Tuesday.Liz Robbins, Linda Qiu and Jaime Yaya Barry contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The list of hard-line immigration demands that President Trump said he needs to back protections for young undocumented immigrants triggered a furious response on Monday from Democrats and immigration activists, who gave no indication they were willing to strike any deal.“There is always in the background, what leverage do we have?” Ms. Pelosi said in an interview. “But it isn’t anything that has to be pronounced. It is there.”Even before those demands were issued, the solutions proliferating on Capitol Hill looked less like progress than testaments to Congress’s failure to come together, with five months left before the young immigrants previously protected by the Obama administration face possible deportation.Democrats were sticking by the Dream Act, which has languished in Congress since it was introduced in 2001. Some Republicans were rallying around the less-generous Succeed Act, which has been rejected by many Democrats who would need to be on board for it to actually succeed. Another Republican senator introduced the Border Security and Deferred Action Recipient Relief Act, which twins border security and legalization for a fraction of the undocumented immigrants whom liberals have sought to protect.None of those bills can now claim a majority in either chamber of Congress.Now they are not so sure.“The $64,000 question is, is the president backing off what he said he would do to Leader Pelosi and I? And there are signs that he is,” Mr. Schumer said. “But what we are saying is very simple: If the president has changed his mind and if he’s doing an about-face from what he told us, he ought to say it now. Not just prolong this. We will try to find other ways to help the Dreamers.”In an interview Monday, Ms. Pelosi said she didn’t think Mr. Trump had backed out of their dinnertime agreement, but she said she found every single White House demand released this weekend “harmful” and unacceptable.Ms. Pelosi stressed that she wants a solution for young immigrants “much sooner” than December.Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, said Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi need to forget about their Chinese dinner with the president and fall back on a strong-armed tactic — the threat of a government shutdown.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I hope the meal was grand because it is obvious today that Donald Trump is not keeping his word,” Mr. Gutiérrez said. “This is the glue that keeps them together, their adamant anti-immigrant policy, and you’re going to need a powerful political tool in order to dislodge them.”Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, Democrat of New Mexico and the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the White House’s demands “immoral.”The back and forth between Democratic leaders and Mr. Trump — and the proliferating legislative responses — have revived memories of immigration failures in 2006, 2007 and 2015.“It’s great to have legislation, but I want to see results,” said Art Acevedo, the chief of the Houston Police Department. “We’ve had legislation on a lot of good policies. But what we want is to see it passed.”Tom Nassif, president of Western Growers, a company that produces about half of all produce across the United States, said he hopes that politicians will finally make a deal after weighing the economic and humanitarian fallout from deporting thousands of workers. But he did not sound optimistic.“The jury is still out on whether they can get it done,” he said. “They haven’t proven they have been able to give and take and make compromises, whether it’s health care reform, or tax reform, or immigration reform.”Democrats have said they would vote for some border security enhancements in exchange for the passage of legislation that mirrors the Dream Act, a bill introduced in 2001 by Senators Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah. That bill allows undocumented immigrants with high school diplomas or general equivalency diplomas to become citizens if they attend college, work or serve in the military.Republicans have put out their own plans. Last month, Senators Hatch, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and James Lankford of Oklahoma offered the Succeed Act, which would make immigrants wait longer than the Dream Act to both become citizens and to help other family members become legal residents. Both senators said their bill would need to be tied to a border security measure.Then last week, Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, a longtime champion of bipartisan immigration legislation, put up what he called a compromise, the Border Security and Deferred Action Recipient Relief Act. That legislation, among other things, would provide $1.6 billion in funding for border security measures, such as fortifying structures and building roads. It would offer a path toward citizenship only for current DACA recipients and children who have been in the country since 2012, and would target gang members and drug cartels for deportation.Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who has been working with Mr. Durbin to push for a compromise on immigration, said he was “really, really happy to see so many Republicans weighing in.” But, he said, Republicans must realize that they will have to give up some of what they want.“The one thing, I tell you, that we can’t do, in my view, is fail,” he said.Jo Anne Lyon, who attended a conservative gathering of pro-immigration activists last week, put her faith in a higher authority after meeting several lawmakers on Capitol Hill.“We need divine intervention for God to move people’s hearts,” Ms. Lyon said. “My prayer is, thaw the frozen hearts.”See More »Go to Home Page »“This, in fact, is our new American moment. There has never been a better time to start living the American dream.”Go to Home Page »When unaccompanied children are apprehended at the border — often after having been taken there by smugglers — immigration officials initiate cases for their deportation, a process that can take months or years. In the meantime, many of those children are placed with parents or relatives who crossed earlier to establish a foothold in the United States and earn money to send back home.Until recently, those adults have not been priorities for arrest, even if they are in the country illegally.In some cases, parents or other relatives who have taken in undocumented children may face criminal smuggling-related charges and the prospect of prison; in other cases, they will be placed in deportation proceedings along with the children. The administration said the arrests would deter families from putting children in the hands of smugglers for dangerous journeys through regions controlled by drug cartels.Though the American authorities have long sought to arrest human smugglers, sometimes known as coyotes, they had not paid much attention to the relatives paying the smuggling fees, until now. Parents and others “who have placed children directly into harm’s way by entrusting them to violent criminal organizations will be held accountable,” Ms. Elzea said.The effort drew immediate criticism from immigrant advocates because it would separate families, including many that had fled violence or poverty.It would also discourage parents from claiming custody of their children when they arrived in the United States, the advocates said. That could lead to more children being sent to juvenile immigrant detention centers, where those with no identifiable family in the United States are often held.“It’s punishing parents for trying to save their children’s lives,” said Michelle Brané, the director of the migrant rights and justice program at the Women’s Refugee Commission. “And it’s endangering the children in the process.”Sarah Rodriguez, an ICE spokeswoman, said the agency would try to find other relatives to place children with before sending them to the detention centers.The administration did not say how many parents had been arrested, and immigration advocates said that based on reports from lawyers, they did not think many had been.But the effort could put hundreds, if not thousands, in jeopardy of arrest.Even so, from February through May, 5,445 children were detained after crossing the border unaccompanied by adult relatives, according to Customs and Border Protection, and a majority of those have wound up reunited with parents or other relatives.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A Salvadoran immigrant who gave only his first name, Jose, because he feared prosecution said in an interview Friday that he and his wife had come to the United States more than a decade ago, and that, as many young couples from their village did, they had left their toddler son, Henry, behind with relatives.When Henry turned 13, gang members began to court him and threaten him for not joining them. In 2014, Jose wired money to a friend in El Salvador who said he knew of a coyote who could take Henry to the United States. “It’s impossible to do without help,” Jose said. “My son didn’t know the way, and it was dangerous.”Jose said that he himself had feared being apprehended when he went to pick up Henry from a government facility after he was detained. But Jose was not — at least not then.“I was worried, but my bigger worry was that my son would not be safe in El Salvador,” he said. “To stay there would have been fatal.”Children often arrive in the United States with addresses and phone numbers of parents or other relatives written on paper. Before now, those relatives would usually not be arrested, even if they were undocumented, unless they had committed a crime.But the Trump administration considers that practice as winking at the relatives’ illegal status.The operation to arrest sponsors of unaccompanied minors is being coordinated by Homeland Security Investigations, a division of ICE that investigates fraud and other crimes. It was unclear how often parents would be criminally prosecuted as opposed to being placed in deportation proceedings. Prosecutions could send a tougher message but also require more time and effort.Immigrant advocates questioned whether parents seeking to be reunited with their children could be convicted of a crime, and instead viewed the effort as an attempt to draw headlines.“This seems to me to be a fear-mongering propaganda move that is poorly thought out and not in the best interests of the children,” said Lenni Benson, who directs the New York Law School’s Safe Passage Project, which provides legal representation to unaccompanied minors.“There is nothing the attorney general and I want more than to put human smugglers out of business,” Mr. Kelly said in a speech at the San Ysidro border crossing in California. “And we will do everything in our power — and within the law — to end the flow of illegal migration.”His department pointed to several instances in which smugglers had endangered children’s lives in car crashes and overheated truck holds where the migrants were hidden during their journeys. One investigation found that a 12-year-old Ecuadorean girl had committed suicide after smugglers sexually assaulted her.Cristiane Rosales-Fajardo, a community organizer in New Orleans who works with Hondurans there, said she knew of many parents who had paid $2,500 to $4,000 to coyotes to smuggle a child into the United States. “Some hadn’t seen them since they were newborns,” she said.Because of the violence in Honduras, Ms. Rosales-Fajardo said, the parents believed that entrusting their children with smugglers was a better option. “The parents wanted to make sure their children were safe,” she said.Miriam Jordan and Liz Robbins contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.TORONTO — He arrived in Toronto, an exhausted 16-year-old, carrying nothing but a small gym bag packed with a change of clothes. As a Somali, he applied for asylum and was jettisoned into adulthood. He registered for high school, learned to cook and landed his first job all on his own.Over the next 25 years, he put himself through college and law school, worked his way up from pouring coffee to advising one of the country’s most powerful leaders and was elected the first Somali-Canadian member of Parliament.Yet Mr. Hussen has rarely talked about this journey. His closest friends and colleagues, all of whom describe him as a gifted conversationalist, say Mr. Hussen never confided the intimate details of his harrowing story.“My experience is not unique,” explained Mr. Hussen, 41, from the back seat of a car in July, being whisked from one Canada Day celebration to the next. “Canada receives a lot of refugees every year.”In his first months on the job, Mr. Hussen has become known for his steady hand on one of the country’s most delicate portfolios, promoting Canada’s increasingly rare open door to immigrants and refugees while remaining diplomatic about the slamming doors elsewhere.Pressure has mounted on Mr. Hussen to both close the border and declare Canada’s biggest trading partner unsafe for refugees, but he has remained characteristically calm and done neither.He never raises the fact that he was an asylum seeker himself. Mr. Hussen grew up in Somalia, the youngest of six children to a long-distance trucker and doting mother he credits for his successes. Both his parents were illiterate, but his mother prized education, cajoling tutors to work with her son every day after school, including an English-speaking cousin who taught him the language.When the civil war reached their neighborhood in Mogadishu, the family boarded a large truck in the middle of the night and lurched south. Mr. Hussen remembers bathing from a bucket in a camp on the outskirts of Mombasa, Kenya, and hunkering down in scattered apartments across Nairobi.Two years after leaving home, his parents announced they had bought him a ticket to Toronto — where his two eldest brothers had moved years before. He’d once glimpsed an article about the country’s prime minister’s awarding an Olympic gymnast. “I had no idea about anything else to do with Canada,” he said.It was his first time on a plane. He recalls the surprising slap of the frigid February air as he left the airport. Since both his brothers worked night shifts, Mr. Hussen moved an hour away to Hamilton, to live with a cousin who himself was a busy college student and rarely home. A year later, in 1994, he was alone.On the few occasions he has publicly recounted those first vulnerable months, Mr. Hussen trumpets the “everyday generosity of Canadians who helped me each and every step of the way.”Pressed for details, he offers examples so pedestrian, they invoke loneliness rather than wonder. A woman pushing a stroller stopped to show him how to use a Canadian mailbox. Another helped him decipher the strange machines in a laundromat.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“When you go through that refugee experience, it is not a free ride,” Mr. Hussen said. “You have this really long journey of settlement and integration that is very hard. You have to sort out the big stuff as well as the everyday things.”He added, “I never had a bank account before Canada.”He had no money for food, let alone entertainment, so he spent his free time training with two running teams and reading in the public library. He poured all his efforts into fitting in, which he offered as another reason he had kept his refugee story quiet.“I wanted to be Canadian,” he said. “I didn’t want to be the Somali guy. I still don’t.”He moved to Toronto and got a minimum-wage job pumping gas a two-hour commute away. Each morning, he left home at 5:30 to board a tram, two subways and, finally, a bus to reach the city limits. Then, to avoid paying another ticket, he would walk for 20 minutes. He saved enough to cover his first year’s tuition at York University, where he studied history.At a community barbecue, he met a local politician who was impressed with his poise.The connection helped him land a receptionist job for Dalton McGuinty, then Ontario’s opposition leader, while he was still studying. In 2003, Mr. McGuinty won the election and became premier, and at age 27, Mr. Hussen was picked for his intergovernment affairs team.All those nights burrowed in the public library gave Mr. Hussen an almost encyclopedic grasp of world history.In 2005, Mr. Hussen started law school to deepen his activism, which began with community organizing in his government-housing neighborhood and moved to leading the Canadian Somali Congress, an advocacy organization.Harminder Dhillon, a lawyer in suburban Toronto, said he hired Mr. Hussen for his first legal job because he was so impressed by his granular knowledge of Gandhi’s independence movement. Not only had Mr. Hussen known that Gandhi’s supporters had burned down a police station in 1922, “he knew the name of the town where it happened,” Mr. Dhillon said.Soon after Mr. Hussen opened a private practice, where he represented refugees. He married another Somali refugee, Ebyan Farah, and they have three sons.While he might not have disclosed his struggles, they intimately define him. Ms. Farah said her husband’s car was often filled with empty bottles that he refuses to throw in public trash cans and instead carts home to recycle.“I’m trying to leave Canada in decent shape,” Mr. Hussen said. “To me, giving back to Canada is very personal.”See More »Go to Home Page »It is not illegal for hotels to turn over guest information but the expectation of privacy by guests is standard across the industry, according to Rosanna Maietta, the senior vice president of communications and public relations for the American Hotel & Lodging Association, the national association representing all segments of the lodging industry, who said that no guest information should be turned over unless law enforcement requires it. But hotel brands aren’t consistent in expressing their policies.Hilton, which includes Embassy Suites, Homewood Suites and Hampton, said that its policy is to not share information with law enforcement unless compelled to, but InterContinental Hotels Group, which includes Candlewood Suites and Holiday Inn Hotels & Resorts, would only say that it abides by all laws, including privacy laws.The announcement by Motel 6 is the second attempt by the company to address the issue. Though G6 released a statement last week apologizing for the practice and said that senior management had not approved it, human rights groups, lawyers, comedians and the general public took to social media to express their outrage.The Houston-based accident lawyer Rogelio Garcia was among those on Twitter who played off the brand’s tag line, “We’ll leave the light on for you.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rummy Pandit, the executive director of the Lloyd D. Levenson Institute of Gaming, Hospitality and Tourism at Stockton University in New Jersey, thinks that the company’s business could take a hit. “I think customers are going to be hesitant to stay at a Motel 6 because they’ll have concerns about their privacy being violated,” he said.While what happened in some Phoenix-area Motel 6 locations has riled the public and human rights groups such as the A.C.L.U., the hotel staff who handed over the guest information to ICE were not acting illegally, said Andrew J. Maloney, a lawyer at the New York City law firm Kreindler & Kreindler who specializes in hospitality law.“There is nothing illegal about a hotel giving out information to law enforcement about its guests, including who is staying there and what they are doing,” he said. “On the other hand, it’s illegal for police to require the hotel for that information without a warrant.”Go to Home Page »A United States Army veteran who served two tours of duty in Afghanistan was deported to Mexico after his application for citizenship was denied because of a felony drug conviction, his lawyer and immigration officials said.Miguel Perez-Montes, 39, was flown on Friday from Gary, Ind., to Brownsville, Tex., where he was escorted across the border to Mexico, Nicole Alberico, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman, said in a statement.Mr. Perez-Montes, who came to the United States legally when he was 8 years old, was convicted in 2010 for delivering cocaine to an undercover officer, a felony drug charge, and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He was placed into removal proceedings in 2012, while behind bars in Illinois, and had been in ICE custody since Sept. 23, 2016, Ms. Alberico said.Mr. Perez-Montes’s case rose to prominence after Senator Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois and an Iraq war veteran, appealed to the Department of Homeland Security on Friday to stay his deportation and review his case.Mr. Perez-Montes enlisted in the Army in 2001, before the Sept. 11 terror attacks. As a paratrooper and private first class in Afghanistan in 2002 and 2003, he began suffering from “severe” symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, Senator Duckworth said. He was discharged in 2004.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Seven years later, in 2011, the Department of Veterans Affairs diagnosed him with PTSD related to his service, the senator said. “Without proper V.A. care, he self-medicated with drugs and alcohol to cope with his PTSD, which eventually resulted in his drug conviction,” she added, calling his deportation a “shocking betrayal.”Asked about Senator Duckworth’s letter, the Department of Homeland Security said Monday that its Citizenship and Immigration Services division had denied Mr. Perez-Montes’s request for naturalization on March 15 because of the felony conviction.“After his two tours of duty with the special forces, he came back a broken man due to the horrors he witnessed in Afghanistan and the physical brain injury he suffered while there,” said Christopher Bergin, Mr. Perez-Montes’s lawyer.He said Mr. Perez-Montes’s role was to repair vehicles in Kandahar, and that his brain injury occurred after a grenade went off near his vehicle.Mr. Perez-Montes’s family was not alerted before he was deported, Mr. Bergin said.“His family was never able to hand him some money and some clothes before they deported him in his prison clothes,” Mr. Bergin said. “He had nothing else.”Mr. Perez-Montes lived in Mexico until he was 8, when he came to the United States on a petition through a family member. He was raised in Chicago and has been a permanent legal resident since age 11, according to a statement on Senator Duckworth’s website. He was never in the country illegally, Mr. Bergin said.Mr. Bergin said that Mr. Perez-Montes, who has two children who are citizens, was afraid that if he returned to Mexico he would become a target of cartels that would try to recruit him because of his military experience, or kill him if he refused. Mr. Bergin said last week that he planned to appeal the denial of citizenship “as far up the court ladder as we must climb.”Go to Home Page »ALBUQUERQUE — Employees at Motel 6 locations in Arizona regularly handed over to the government information that led to its hotel guests being detained and deported, the company has acknowledged.Ms. Rehkoff said that senior executives became aware of the practice only in recent days, and when they did, they moved to end it.“To help ensure that this does not occur again, we will be issuing a directive to every one of our more than 1,400 locations nationwide, making clear that they are prohibited from voluntarily providing daily guest lists to ICE,” she added. Ms. Rehkoff also said that Motel 6 apologized for the episode.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Immigration lawyers representing people who were detained while they were staying at Motel 6 locations and were later deported from the United States said that they had collected evidence showing that the practice was widespread, and not limited to one state. Juan Rocha, an immigration lawyer in Arizona, said that an employee at a Motel 6 in Washington State told him of the same practice there.“We’re looking at a situation where people with Hispanic surnames check into Motel 6, get their names reported to ICE, and a few hours later there are immigration agents knocking on the door to take them away,” Mr. Rocha said. “This is racial profiling that is tearing families apart.”Yasmeen Pitts O’Keefe, a spokeswoman for ICE in Phoenix, declined to comment directly on the matter, saying in a statement that the organization does not usually disclose or discuss information related to the sources of its enforcement leads. She acknowledged that some leads come from private citizens, but said the agency did not pay any bounty or reward for such information.Ray Ybarra Maldonado, a Phoenix lawyer, said that he, too, had a client who was picked up while staying at Motel 6 and then deported.“As a business strategy, this defies common sense regarding the treatment of an establishment’s paying guests,” Mr. Maldonado said. “Beyond that, this practice violates equal-protection guarantees. People have put two and two together to figure out how Motel 6 was illegally targeting its own customers.”See More »Go to Home Page »Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your InboxBut the informal DACA agreement with Democrats is unlikely to be the move that splinters his re-election coalition. Partnering with Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi on this immigration issue may make him look more like a Democrat, but DACA is broadly popular, and according to data on opinions of leaders in both parties, it also brings him a lot closer to most Republican elites.The main conclusion from the Chicago Council data is simple: On many issues, including illegal immigration, globalization and trade, Republicans in the population are more conservative than Republican elites.Republican voters were roughly 40 points more likely than Republican elites to believe that controlling illegal immigration should be a top priority of American foreign policy (61 percent to 20 percent). They were less likely to support the resettlement of Syrian refuges to the United States (27 percent to 71 percent). And they were more likely to believe that immigrants and refuges entering the United States are a critical threat to the nation (55 percent to 16 percent). Similar differences exist on issues of trade, globalization and Social Security.These patterns help explain how Mr. Trump emerged as a viable candidate and eventual winner of the G.O.P. nomination in 2016. He went where Republican voters were, signaling this with his exhortations about building a wall and banning the entry of all Muslims, for example. His candidacy was helped by the fact that other contenders wouldn’t echo him to compete for those votes explicitly.The survey patterns also suggest an upside for President Trump regarding his meetings and agreements with Democratic leaders. He will be more in line with Republican elites on those topics — the type who routinely win support from a plurality of Republican voters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“What they were is they were kind,” he added.Mr. Trump’s tone three years later was much less kind than the party line in 2012. He even criticized a Republican primary opponent, Jeb Bush, for saying that illegal border crossings were motivated by an “act of love” and commitment to family. Now, he’s testing the deep affection of his base once again by seemingly going back to a kinder approach on immigration.Go to Home Page »A former top lawyer for Immigration and Customs Enforcement pleaded guilty on Thursday to stealing the identities of seven people in deportation proceedings and buying more than $190,000 in goods under their names, the federal authorities said.The former lawyer, Raphael A. Sanchez, used his position as the ICE chief counsel for immigration proceedings in several Western states to gain access to the victims’ personal information in federal databases, including their immigration records. Using those records, Mr. Sanchez created fake Social Security cards, driver’s licenses and utility bills to open credit card and bank accounts in their names, the authorities said.Mr. Sanchez, 44, ran the elaborate scheme, which included his claiming three of the people as dependents on his tax returns, from October 2013 to October 2017, ordering items online and having them shipped to his house. To try to make the purchases appear legitimate, he also signed up for credit monitoring to track the immigrants’ credit scores and fabricated income statements, the Justice Department said.Coming soon: A newsletter on women, gender and society.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Raphael Sanchez betrayed that solemn responsibility and abused his official position to prey upon aliens for his own personal gain,” John P. Cronan, the acting assistant attorney in the department’s criminal division, said in a statement.Mr. Sanchez’s lawyer, Cassandra Stamm, said he had “sincere and immense regret” for his actions.“Raphael Sanchez is a good person who has made serious mistakes in violation of the law,” Ms. Stamm said in an email. “Mr. Sanchez looks forward to fully repaying all those affected by his crimes.”As part of his plea agreement, Mr. Sanchez is expected to receive a sentence of 48 months in prison, Ms. Stamm said. Mr. Sanchez resigned from his federal position on Monday.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump is expected to remind Congress on Friday of his promised crackdown on undocumented immigrants in the United States by highlighting the brutal violence of the transnational gang MS-13 as the face of illegal immigration in America.Additionally, Mr. Trump will demand the denial of federal grant money to so-called sanctuary cities that do not assist federal authorities in detaining undocumented immigrants. He will also call for the approval of Kate’s Law — named for a woman killed by an undocumented immigrant — to strengthen criminal penalties for people who repeatedly re-enter the United States without authorization, the official said.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump vowed last year to get rid of the “bad hombres” who have entered the United States illegally. At the White House on Thursday, officials from the Justice Department and Immigration and Customs Enforcement appeared alongside pictures of men covered in tattoos to promote the administration’s efforts to eradicate the scourge of transnational gangs.Immigrant advocacy groups responded with outrage to the White House presentation by Thomas Homan, the acting ICE director, arguing that he was stoking fear about immigrants throughout the country.“Despite his efforts to terrify people, a consensus is emerging that ICE itself constitutes a threat to public safety,” Pablo Alvarado, the executive director of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, an advocacy group, said in a statement. “It is now time for lawmakers to draw upon the courage that immigrants are showing in the face of unprecedented racism and scapegoating.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:My grandparents, who emigrated from Sweden before 1900, would not have been permitted entry at Ellis Island if the proposed immigration bill had been the law of the land when they arrived. They had little money and few skills other than as laborers, and they spoke no English.I am certain that this was true of millions of immigrants during that migratory flood. What they did possess was energy, the ability to work hard and pride in their new home. That flood of poorly educated, penniless, unskilled people was a singular contribution to America’s success in the 20th century.KEITH TILLSTROM, PORTLAND, ORE.To the Editor:Immigration is a competitive advantage in an aging world. China’s work force is starting to shrink because of the rapid aging of its population. The American work force will keep expanding because of immigration.A second aspect of an aging society is the key role that family members play in providing care and support for older relatives. Immigration policies need to support extended families in this important work. The proposal from the president and Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia overlooks the essential competitive role of immigration in an aging world.MICHAEL A. SMYER, LEWISBURG, PA.The writer is a professor of psychology at Bucknell University and founder of Graying Green: Climate Action for an Aging World.To the Editor:It saddens me to think of all the highly deserving and ambitious would-be immigrants who would be barred from entering the United States under President Trump’s newly announced guidelines. Picture a 16-year-old Bavarian boy with little or no English, whose only skill is barbering, desperate to avoid military service and fulfill the American dream of success, being turned down for a visa.Poor Friedrich Trump! No restaurant and boardinghouse empire in Seattle! No real-estate magnate son in New York City! No grandson in the White House!JOHN V.H. DIPPEL, BROOKLIN, ME.To the Editor:California is not enemy territory for Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. We merely don’t want our precious state and local law enforcement resources used to enforce federal immigration laws. We’d rather have our police officers perform duties that keep our communities safe rather than arresting law-abiding residents and tearing families apart.The notion that ICE agents are being forced into our communities by uncooperative local law enforcement is a fallacy perpetrated by Thomas Homan, ICE’s acting director. Noncriminal arrests of undocumented immigrants have increased a stunning 150 percent during President Trump’s first 100 days in office. ICE moved into our communities the day he took office.KEVIN DE LEÓN, SACRAMENTOThe writer, a Democrat, is the California Senate president pro tempore.To the Editor:The sharp increase in the deportation of undocumented immigrants has spread fear among millions of working people who contribute money to their families and our economy. The silence most Americans have on this topic is even more disturbing. It is about time we, as good people, compel Congress to finally pass some real immigration reform.FRED FENTON, SEAL BEACH, CALIF.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialThe proposal would slash the total number of green cards issued by 41 percent in the first year and by 50 percent in the 10th year, with most of the cuts coming from family-based immigration. It would cap the number of refugees admitted every year and eliminate a program that provides green cards via lottery to people from countries that send few immigrants to the United States. The bill would not reduce employment-based green cards, but it would change how the recipients are selected by putting in place a points-based system that rewards people who speak English and have advanced degrees and work experience.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSIn bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times.Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.Supported byLettersTo the Editor:My grandparents had no special skills when they came to this country. They were poor and uneducated. They came from Russia and Poland because their religion limited their opportunities and put them at risk of death. Their children went to public schools and universities in New York and prospered.I would like to think that our family has been an asset to this country. The Canadian immigration system, favored by Mr. Tepperman, is rational but cold and selfish. We welcome immigrants and refugees because that is what a decent, moral society does.We should ask those who are fleeing abuse and death not what they can do for us, but what we can do for them.KEITH S. HELLER, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Lest Jonathan Tepperman become too smug and self-righteous in extolling Canada’s immigration policy, he would do well to examine Canada’s sins.Canada’s shameful attitude toward the immigration of Jews from Europe into Canada during the years 1933 to 1948 is best summed up by Irving M. Abella and Harold M. Troper in their book “None Is Too Many.” The title says it all.(RABBI) SHAWN B. ZELL, DALLASTo the Editor:But couldn’t the simple fact that Canada has a lower population density than the United States be more of a factor in Canadians’ greater willingness to allow immigrants compared with the United States?This could also explain why, across the pond, the English were more receptive to anti-immigrant sentiment and a majority of them voted for Brexit, while a majority of Scots voted against.According to Eurostat data from 2012, England has a population density of 407 residents per square kilometer, while Scotland has a density of 68.PETER HOMANS, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Your Interpreter column identifies some of the ways in which Canada’s political parties have fostered multiculturalism and undermined the bases of anti-immigrant populism. Other factors also shape Canada’s political liberalism.Canada has a generous social welfare system, and a far higher fraction of the population belongs to labor unions than in the United States. Government programs and unions both build economic security, which greatly lessens the economic anxiety that led to Brexit and Donald Trump’s election victories.RICHARD LACHMANN, NEW YORKThe writer is a professor of sociology at the University at Albany.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorLast Thursday, I found myself in the back of an ambulance with my handcuffed husband, Ravi Ragbir, two E.M.T.s and an agent from Immigration and Customs Enforcement.As the ambulance inched its way out of 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan, I caught glimpses of the chaos outside. Faces of friends swam in and out of view. We could hear the shouts and wails of the hundreds of supporters surrounding us who knew Ravi had been arrested, feared he was being “disappeared” and were attempting, nonviolently, with their bodies, to protect him.Ravi’s arrest is the latest in a series that makes clear that ICE is singling out immigrant activists and leaders for detention and deportation. In the past week alone we have learned of three other leaders who have been deported, detained or placed into deportation proceedings. Each of these leaders has been outspoken about his or her own immigration case and has worked toward a more just system for all.Last week, Ravi had his regularly scheduled check-in with ICE. Once routine, these check-ins have become terrifying under President Trump, with immigrants being detained and deported after meeting with officials.When Ravi, his lawyer and I walked into the building, we were more nervous than usual, even though nothing had changed in Ravi’s case.When the ICE officer told us that Ravi’s legal options were exhausted and that he would be deported, Ravi passed out. I held him tightly and he revived; someone called for medical attention.By nighttime, Ravi had been flown to Miami. I spent the day unsure where he was and struggling to accept that my husband had been taken from me.As a longtime immigrant rights lawyer and advocate, I am aware of the horrific conditions in the jails that hold immigrants. I know how deportation tears at the fabric of families and communities.But now I am inside this nightmare personally and it hurts more than I ever thought it would. I come home to an empty apartment, and everything screams Ravi’s absence.Like Jean and thousands of other immigrants caught in ICE raids, Ravi threatens no one. On the contrary, he and other immigrant leaders have led their communities with dignity and courage in a brutal time. That’s why they were snatched — and why ICE wants to deport them.The last time I saw my husband was through Plexiglas at the Krome Detention Center in Miami. After six tense days and a court hearing on Tuesday, ICE said it would bring Ravi back to the New York area so that he could be closer to his family, his legal counsel and his community. But he remains detained, and he is still not safe from deportation.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorPresident Trump’s support for a proposal from Senators Tom Cotton and David Perdue that slashes legal immigration and reports about the Justice Department’s renewed interests in scrutinizing college affirmative action programs should come as no surprise. Mr. Trump is catering to his largely middle-aged, white, middle- and working-class base. That’s what politicians do.But is he addressing legitimate interest-group concerns or is he pandering to racial fears? There is a rather one-sided debate over what motivates Mr. Trump and his supporters. A wave of new books and articles still invoke stereotypes trotted out on election night: Mr. Trump’s “angry white voters” were motivated by racism, resentment, “whitelash,” declining economic or social status, irrational fears of economic or demographic change, or all of the above. They are deluded, confused “Strangers in Their Own Land,” as suggested by the title of a book by the sociologist Arlie Hochschild.This thinly veiled scorn has inhibited deeper study of whether Mr. Trump’s white voters are responding to legitimate economic threats generated by what I have termed “the diversity machine.” This powerful policy juggernaut has quietly and questionably blended together two trends that threaten working- and middle-class whites.For more than a hundred years, these split labor markets have often pitted native-born workers (mostly white, sometimes unionized) against successive waves of cheap-labor newcomers (usually of different ethnicity or culture or both). Economic competition fuels ethnic antagonism — and nativism, racism and the like.There has been very little scholarly or public attention paid to a second policy trend that intensified the antagonism born of this ethnically split labor market. In the 1990s, affirmative action’s original mission to right past wrongs against African-Americans was transformed into an expanded list of preferences in the workplace and in higher education for immigrant subgroups (for example, Hispanics, Asians or Pacific Islanders).The system of expanding diversity preferences and much immigration policy have often been formulated and imposed by bureaucrats and judges. But in several states, voters approved ballot measures like Michigan’s Proposition 2 banning ethnic preferences, or legislatures passed laws placing controls on illegal immigration (the latter, such as Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070, sometimes undone, in part or in whole, by the courts).There is good reason to suspect that universities may not follow the letter of the law. Data from the Association of American Medical Colleges indicate that race is a substantial factor in medical school admissions, not one of many. For example, from 2013 to 2016, medical schools in the United States accepted 94 percent of blacks, 83 percent of Hispanics, 63 percent of whites and 58 percent of Asians with top MCAT scores of 30 to 32 and grade-point averages of 3.6 to 3.8; for MCAT scores of 27 to 29 (G.P.A. of 3.4 to 3.6), the corresponding figures are 81 percent, 60 percent, 29 percent and 21 percent. For low-range MCAT scores of 24-26 (G.P.A. of 3.2 to 3.4), 57 percent of blacks were admitted, 31 percent of Hispanics, 8 percent of whites and 6 percent of Asians.Since the election, many Democrats have been talking less about diversity and more about unifying cultural and economic commonalities. The new Democratic “Better Deal” populist blueprint put forward by Senator Charles Schumer of New York echoes his admiration for the New Deal by emphasizing strategies that would help all American workers.Mr. Schumer knows his party must quickly and candidly address the question of why the white working and middle classes — groups who were the foundation of Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal coalition — often support Mr. Trump.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday voted to crack down on undocumented immigrants and localities that shelter them, approving two bills President Trump has championed but that are certain to meet resistance in the Senate.The legislation from the Republican-controlled House would increase prison sentences for those re-entering the country illegally and pressure so-called sanctuary cities to comply with federal immigration officials, including through cutting federal funds.While the measures gave the president a modest, if predictable, win, they would need Democratic support to clear the Senate’s 60-vote threshold, an unlikely prospect.John F. Kelly, the secretary of homeland security, made an unusual appearance at the Capitol to praise the bills. He criticized sanctuary cities — a broad term for localities that limit how local law enforcement officials cooperate with federal immigration officials — by saying they prioritize “criminals over public and law enforcement officer safety.”“It is beyond my comprehension why federal, state and local officials sworn to enforce the laws of the nation, as I am, would actively discourage or outright prevent law enforcement agencies from upholding the laws of the United States,” Mr. Kelly told reporters.The bills touch on immigration issues that were central to Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign that he has revisited as president and tried to address through executive action. On Wednesday, meeting with families of victims of crimes committed by unauthorized immigrants, Mr. Trump called on lawmakers to pass the bills.It was unclear what the fate of the bills would be on the Senate side, though it appeared unlikely senators would pass them as-is. Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, one of the few Democrats who voted for similar legislation in recent years, said he would need to review the House legislation before committing.Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican, is working on a broader border security bill that would incorporate aspects of both House immigration bills, including defunding sanctuary cities, two Senate aides said.One of the House bills, known as the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, potentially broadens the pool of money that cities could lose for not cooperating with federal immigration officials. It also seeks to indemnify local law enforcement officials who detain immigrants on behalf of the federal authorities from lawsuits, making the federal government the defendant in such cases. The bill passed 228 to 195.Mr. Trump, who started his presidential campaign just weeks before Ms. Steinle was killed, pointed to the case at the time as “yet another example of why we must secure our border immediately.”On Thursday, Speaker Paul D. Ryan said the House measures would aim to prevent deaths like Ms. Steinle’s, adding that had the gunman not been in the United States, she would not have been killed.“He should not have been here,” Mr. Ryan said. “And she should not have died.”Democrats criticized the measures for cutting critical funding for law enforcement and demonizing immigrants.“This bill perpetuates the fiction that immigrants are inherently criminal,” said Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.Some law enforcement officials have also expressed concerns with the legislation. The National Fraternal Order of Police came out against the sanctuary cities bill this week. In a letter to House leadership, the group’s national president, Chuck Canterbury, said, “Law enforcement officers do not get to pick and choose which laws to enforce, and must carry out lawful orders at the direction of their commanders and the civilian government that employs them.”And the American Civil Liberties Union said the sanctuary cities bill violates the Fourth Amendment by requiring local law enforcement to hold people without due process or probable cause when requested by immigration agents.“These bills are riddled with constitutional violations that completely disregard the civil and human rights of immigrants,” Lorella Praeli, the group’s director of immigration policy and campaigns, said in a statement.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialIt took a lawmaker who is retiring to admit what most Republicans know is their biggest obstacle to getting anything done — a president they can’t depend on or trust.Mr. Corker and his colleagues are quickly learning that if the middle of the road is going to be their route, then Congress will have to drive.It was the latest flip-flop for the administration and a demoralizing turn for what seemed like a possible bipartisan deal on an emotional issue.That’s not what Mr. Trump agreed to during his late-summer dalliance with those Democrats, Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, the minority leaders in the Senate and the House. “The administration can’t be serious about compromise” with a list like this, Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi said in a written statement.So what can Republicans do? Start by working across the aisle on sensible immigration legislation. That would begin with what got this entire discussion started: a deal to protect the Dreamers. It would not include Mr. Trump’s border wall, a nonstarter for Democrats that Republican budget hawks also oppose.No matter what the final package looks like, it needs to get to the floor and be put to a vote — which depends on the House speaker, Paul Ryan, and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, embracing higher principles than fear of their Tea Party rebels. This doesn’t need to be so hard: There’s a sympathetic population that needs immediate help, there are blueprints on the table that might find bipartisan consensus, and there is a ticking clock.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSIn an impassioned rebuke of the Trump administration’s immigration practices, a Federal District Court judge in Manhattan Monday ordered the immediate release of the immigrant rights activist Ravi Ragbir, calling his abrupt detention on Jan. 11 unconstitutional and cruel.Mr. Ragbir, a native of Trinidad and Tobago who has been ordered to leave the country by immigration officials, should have been entitled to “the freedom to say goodbye,” as Judge Katherine B. Forrest, of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, put it in her opinion.“It ought not to be — and it has never before been — that those who have lived without incident in this country for years are subjected to treatment we associate with regimes we revile as unjust, regimes where those who have long lived in a country may be taken without notice from streets, home and work. And sent away," Judge Forrest said, reading from the written order she delivered soon after oral arguments.“We are not that country; and woe be the day that we become that country under a fiction that laws allow it.”Thunderous cheers and clapping erupted in the 23rd floor courtroom packed to overflow capacity with clergy and members of the New Sanctuary Coalition of New York City, the immigrant rights organization where Mr. Ragbir is the executive director. He was released Monday night from the Orange County Correctional Facility in Goshen, N.Y., and will continue to fight his deportation on several fronts.The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency issued a stinging response, in which it called Mr. Ragbir “an aggravated felon” in reference to his wire fraud conviction in 2000. It said it was “actively exploring” an appeal.“The agency is deeply disturbed by the harmful personal attacks some Congress members have leveled against career law enforcement personnel, whose sworn duty is enforcing laws enacted by Congress itself,” the statement read.“The agency is similarly concerned with the tone of the district court’s decision, which equates the difficult work ICE professionals do every day to enforce our immigration laws with ‘treatment we associate with regimes we revile as unjust.’”Federal prosecutors asked Judge Forrest, who was nominated by President Barack Obama in 2011, to keep Mr. Ragbir in detention. Judge Forrest rejected the request.Stephen Yale-Loehr, a professor at Cornell Law School, called the decision “groundbreaking.” He said, “It holds that the Constitution requires the government to give people subject to a final deportation order time to arrange their affairs.”But Mr. Yale-Loehr cautioned: “Today’s decision was long on rhetoric and short on careful legal analysis. I worry that a higher court may reverse.”The judge acknowledged that the government’s labyrinthine statutes allowed for the detention of people with what are known as final orders of removal, meaning that they have no further appeals in the immigration courts and may be deported. But that did not mean that the government could deny due process, she said.“Taking such a man, and there are many such men and women like him, and subjecting him to what is rightfully understood as no different or better than penal detention, is certainly cruel,” Judge Forrest said. “The Constitution commands better.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Ragbir came to the United States in 1991 from Trinidad and Tobago. He had been a lawful permanent resident when he was convicted of wire fraud in 2000. After he served his sentence, Mr. Ragbir was ordered deported in 2006 and detained by immigration officials, then released on an order of supervision while his case moved through the immigration courts.In 2011, the New York field office of the ICE granted him a stay of removal, allowing him to remain in the country. He was given several extensions of the stay, the last set to expire on Jan. 19. But ICE decided to detain him eight days early, at a Jan. 11 check-in.Federal prosecutors argued they did so because ICE had obtained travel documents from Trinidad. The agency flew him to a detention facility in Miami without initially notifying his lawyer and wife; the court later ordered him back to the New York area.Because Mr. Ragbir was not a flight risk or a danger to the community, his lawyers argued that he should not have been detained.They said that Scott Mechkowski, the assistant field director of ICE who ordered him deported, had resented Mr. Ragbir for his activism against the agency.During oral arguments, Jeremy Cutting, a legal intern for Ms. Das, said that Mr. Mechkowski had at one point referred to the Jan. 11 check-in as “D-Day.” After Mr. Ragbir was detained and taken away in an ambulance, it turned into a showdown; 18 people, including two City Council members, were arrested during protests outside the federal building.Brandon Waterman, a lawyer for the government, said that claims that government was targeting Mr. Ragbir was “pure speculation,” adding, “we have no information to support that.”Ms. Das said that Mr. Ragbir has a separate lawsuit pending in New Jersey challenging his original criminal conviction. A judge there has issued a temporary stay of deportation so that the court can hear the case, and the next hearing is on Feb. 9.Amy Gottlieb, Mr. Ragbir’s wife, called Judge Forrest’s decision gratifying. “We’ve all seen that our immigration system is not treating people fairly,” she said. “And the judge saw that and called it out.”Before the decision, Representative Nydia Velazquez, a Democrat from New York, had invited Ms. Gottlieb to be her guest at the State of the Union on Tuesday. Ms. Gottlieb said that she wanted her husband to accompany her to Washington.Follow Liz Robbins on Twitter: @nytlizrobbinsGo to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:“This is basically going to war against the State of California,” Gov. Jerry Brown said on Wednesday.This is not only a war against California. This is a nationwide civil war that has been festering just beneath the surface for some time, and more recently has surfaced with a vengeance.I’m not sure how best to define the adversaries — certainly not strictly by region — but it’s fairly easy to predict where proponents of either side will stand on any given issue, “sanctuary cities” being an obvious example. It is really a fight for the soul of America, and a great deal hangs in the balance.I can say that “my side” is not winning that battle at the moment. But there is hope. Let’s make November 2018 our Gettysburg.JIM BISHOP, BANGOR, ME.To the Editor:Rather than likening Oakland’s mayor, Libby Schaaf, to a “gang lookout” for tipping off her city’s Latino residents about an impending Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency raid, I prefer to compare the mayor’s actions to those of abolitionists who helped slaves escape from the South.On Thursday, President Trump called Ms. Schaaf’s actions a “disgrace,” but it is ICE’s maltreatment of Latino and Muslim immigrants that is reprehensible. These raids sweep up hardworking people, deport them and leave their families to suffer the consequences. Ironically, we are a nation of immigrants, and the growing sanctuary movement and the courage of people like Ms. Schaaf are hopeful signs that ICE’s anti-immigrant witch hunts will eventually come to an end.PATRICK O’NEILL, GARNER, N.C.To the Editor:The Jennings decision puts both the rule of law and immigrant rights in further jeopardy.L. MICHAEL HAGER, EASTHAM, MASS.To the Editor:My ancestors on my mother’s side arrived in Massachusetts in 1620. They were met by the indigenous peoples, who didn’t have, but probably wished they had, a Department of Homeland Security. Had they known what was coming they would have — wisely — told Gov. William Bradford and his small band of white Europeans to “get back on your ship and return to wherever you came from.”The vast majority of Americans are “immigrants” or descended from one. That is something our president, whose family immigrated here not that long ago, might do well to remember as we consider the fate of the Dreamers and all the other so-called illegal immigrants working and raising families in “our” country.RICHARD C. HISCOCK, BARRE, VT.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSFrom the early days of the Trump administration, Mayor Bill de Blasio proclaimed that he would defend the residents of New York from the newly aggressive immigration authorities, “regardless of where they come from, regardless of their immigration status.”A year later, the federal government has ratcheted up its attacks against so-called sanctuary cities like New York — including Chicago, Philadelphia and San Francisco — threatening to withhold millions of dollars in federal funding for law enforcement programs and detaining growing numbers of undocumented residents. Cities faced a Friday deadline to prove their cooperation with the immigration authorities, as the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE, continued making arrests. Nationwide, the number of arrests in 2017 increased 41 percent from the year before.In New York, where some 500,000 residents are undocumented, if ICE wants to arrest somebody, it can.“Putting a bubble over a city where ICE can’t penetrate is not possible,” said Camille Mackler, the legal policy director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an activist group. “People think ‘sanctuary city’ — that you’re able to walk freely without fear. That’s not the case.”ICE agents have been appearing in New York’s courthouses and at people’s front doors, and, according to immigrant advocates, even entered a Manhattan church with a Spanish-speaking immigrant congregation. While the New York Police Department does not generally hand over detainees to ICE, it does, through a bureaucratic backdoor, essentially provide a road map: Arrest information is sent to the state, which shares it with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. ICE can now see that information.“It’s hardly a sanctuary,” said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute’s office at New York University School of Law. “The mayor of the City of New York does not hide people under his desk. We’re fully cooperating with ICE. People get deported from New York all the time.”Immigration arrests of residents without criminal records more than tripled in New York after President Trump took office. Of the 2,976 arrests in 2017, 899 were of people without criminal convictions, up from 250 out of 1,762 in 2016, according to ICE statistics. Under the Obama administration, undocumented immigrants without criminal records were not priorities for deportation.Mr. de Blasio often says that the term “sanctuary city” is misinterpreted: It is a policy intended to make undocumented victims or witnesses feel safe to report crimes to the police without fear of immigration repercussions.To that end, New York does not deputize police officers to carry out immigration laws, under a policy known as 287g, which Mr. Trump has strongly supported. Since 2014, the city has declined to honor what are known as detainers — requests by ICE to hold undocumented immigrants who have been charged or convicted of crimes for 48 hours past their release dates so that immigration agents can pick them up. The city also removed immigration authorities from the Rikers Island jail complex where they had easy access to prisoners when they were released.“It forces them to go to inconvenient and costly routes to get to their target,” Mr. Chishti said.New York’s detainer law, however, has exceptions: The police must turn over a person convicted of one of 170 serious crimes within the last five years — including arson, homicide, rape or robbery — and in cases in which a judge has signed a detainer request.ICE issued 1,526 detainer requests to the New York Police Department in the 2017 fiscal year, up from 80 in 2016. The Police Department complied with none of them.By its own policy, ICE does not enter places of worship, schools and hospitals. But courthouses have become frequent sites of arrests because they offer a degree of control that agents would not have when going to people’s homes.“Because courthouse visitors are typically screened upon entry to search for weapons and other contraband, the safety risks for the arresting officers and for the arrestee inside such a facility are substantially diminished,” ICE said in a statement.According to the Immigrant Defense Project, a nonprofit organization that is tracking arrests at city and state courthouses, 87 arrests were made in New York City courts in 2017, compared with six in 2016. So far, this year, there have been 13 courthouse arrests.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Aboubacar Dembele, 27, was one. He was surrounded by immigration agents moments after stepping out of a hearing in Bronx Criminal Court. Mr. Dembele, an undocumented immigrant from the Ivory Coast, had pleaded not guilty to an assault charge stemming from a fight on a city bus in December; the judge had reduced the charge to a misdemeanor from a felony, and had set a follow-up court date to address the charges.Instead, Mr. Dembele is awaiting deportation at the Hudson County Correctional Facility in Kearny, N.J.“The way that they come and ambush people is outrageous,” said his lawyer, Monica Dula, of the Legal Aid Society of New York.Mr. Dembele was placed on ICE’s radar because of his arrest; his court appearance was public record.In January, ICE clarified its policy to say that it would not arrest family members or witnesses. Actions inside courthouses, it said, would be against “targeted aliens with criminal convictions, gang members, national security or public safety threats.”“The public is led to believe that ICE is pulling out dangerous individuals,” the Brooklyn district attorney, Eric Gonzalez, said at a news conference to denounce ICE’s courthouse actions. He added that low-level offenders are more often being arrested. “There is a chilling effect on our noncitizen and immigrant populations.”As he spoke, ICE agents were in a Brooklyn courthouse to pick up a defendant. The judge postponed the case when the man’s lawyer, Roger Asmar, told her that his client was afraid to appear.Mr. de Blasio has come out against that idea, however, for public-safety reasons.The city, which has provided a municipal ID card often used by undocumented residents, has also allocated $47.5 million for immigrant legal services this year.To the ire of some immigrant activists, Mr. de Blasio said the money could not be used to aid undocumented immigrants convicted of the serious crimes defined by the detainer law. The New York City Bar Association wrote him a letter claiming “it was fundamentally unfair” to deny people legal help, including those eligible for a complex form of relief for victims of domestic violence or unaccompanied minors.Last summer, Mr. de Blasio eliminated city money for that same class of immigrants in deportation proceedings. The City Council secured private funding to keep representing clients who fell into this category.At times, it seems that Mr. de Blasio’s fierce rhetoric has given some immigrants an inflated sense of security. In December, two ICE officers entered the downstairs lobby of Saint Peter’s Church in Midtown Manhattan that houses a Spanish-speaking congregation, La Iglesia de Sion, according to the Rev. Amandus J. Derr, a pastor at Saint Peter’s. Father Derr escorted the two men from the building. An official for ICE said it could not confirm that the officers were from the enforcement agency.The incident left the congregation rattled and its numbers depleted. One member attending a recent Sunday Mass, Angela Carvajal, 49, relayed her fears. “I hope the mayor will do something about this,” she said in Spanish. Her friend, Alicia Garcia-Fuentes, 40, added, “Isn’t he supposed to protect the undocumented?”Isvett Verde contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »BOSTON — The highest state court in Massachusetts ruled on Monday that court officers do not have the authority, under state law, to hold people in custody based solely on the requests from federal immigration authorities known as civil detainers.“Anybody who has the ability to arrest a person will be bound by this decision,” said Laura Rótolo, staff counsel and community advocate for the American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts. She said the decision was the first ruling by a state’s high court on the question of whether state or local authorities can detain individuals based only on a request by federal immigration authorities.Maura Healey, the attorney general of Massachusetts, called the ruling “a rejection of anti-immigrant policies that have stoked fear in communities across the country.”As they began to review the ruling, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency moved quickly to denounce it. “While ICE is currently reviewing this decision to determine next steps, this ruling weakens local law enforcement agencies’ ability to protect their communities,” C.M. Cronen, the field office director for ICE in Boston, said in a statement.President Trump has long stated a goal of removing millions of undocumented immigrants from the country, and cities like Philadelphia, New York and Chicago have drawn his administration’s ire with so-called sanctuary-city policies that instruct local law enforcement officials not to inquire about people’s immigration status or assist with immigration enforcement efforts in other ways.Experts said the ruling could be another local setback for federal immigration authorities, who issue civil detainers to request that local authorities keep a person in custody for a day or two longer than they normally would.“It reduces the leverage of ICE in asking local and state cops to honor detainers,” said Muzaffar Chishti, of the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group. Mr. Chishti added, “It also gives an argument for localities in this case who are reluctant to honor detainers for a variety of reasons, that gives them additional legal basis to say no.”Mr. Chishti said a number of federal courts have already ruled that detainer requests are not binding for state and local officials. California and Connecticut have statewide laws limiting individuals who can be held at ICE’s request.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Mr. Chishti, as well as the Massachusetts attorney general’s office, said Monday’s ruling by the state’s Supreme Judicial Court appears to be the first time a state’s high court has limited compliance with civil detainers based on a reading of state law.The case revolved around Sreynuon Lunn, who was charged with robbery last fall before the case was dismissed in February. The authorities had already issued a civil immigration detainer against Mr. Lunn, and he was held — apparently in the courthouse — for hours after his case was dismissed and then taken into custody by immigration authorities.In the decision, the court ruled that detaining someone in such a way was tantamount to arresting them, and that state law “provides no authority” under common or statutory law for court officers to make such an arrest.“No party or amicus has identified a single Massachusetts statute that authorizes a Massachusetts police officer or court officer, directly or indirectly, to arrest in the circumstances here, based on a federal civil immigration detainer,” the ruling said. It added that the state legislature could pass such a law that would do so.Sheriff Thomas Hodgson of Bristol County, who has been outspoken in his denunciation of undocumented immigrants and those who protect them, said he was working with three Republican state lawmakers to draft legislation that would do just that.“It will make the Commonwealth safer if we can get this bill passed by the legislature, which authorizes court officers and law enforcement officers to honor ICE detainers,” Sheriff Hodgson said.An article on Monday about an opinion by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that limits the authority of local law enforcement officials to detain people at the request of federal immigration authorities referred incorrectly to the authorship of the opinion. The ruling was issued by the full court; it was not written by Associate Justice Barbara Lenk.Charlie Savage contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »“I think people believe in a fair go, but this is ripping the system off,” he said in an interview with the conservative radio host Alan Jones. “We’ve given notice to almost 60 of them to say that the game is up and we aren’t going to provide you with the housing — the welfare will stop,” Mr. Dutton said, referring to asylum seekers.“You will be expected to support yourself in the community until departing Australia,” said a letter by the Immigration Department that was leaked to The Age.Mr. Dutton defended the tough new measures during his interview on Monday, saying that asylum seekers who sought legal help to remain in Australia after receiving medical treatment were taking unfair advantage of the system. “The medical assistance has been provided and there is no need for them to remain in Australia and yet, through these legal moves, they’ve found themselves a way,” he said.Up to 400 asylum seekers and their children living in Australia on medical transfers could be affected under the new visa, according the The Age. Known as the “final departure Bridging E Visa,” it reportedly grants asylum seekers the right to work, which they were barred from doing previously.A senator with the Australian Greens, Nick McKim, said that his party would be seeking advice on how to reverse the decision in the Senate.In a statement on Sunday, Mr. McKim said that reversing the decision would hinge on the opposition Labor party, “who have to decide whether they will accept abject cruelty as a policy position.”“They’ve been locked up by our government for years on remote islands, and then when they were finally released the government banned them from working, training or even volunteering,” he said. “And now they are suddenly being cut off, kicked out and told to leave the country.”“The sensible and compassionate thing to do is to let them stay,” he added. “Instead, our Immigration Minister Peter Dutton is trying to force them back to danger by making them destitute.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Asylum seekers have been sent to Manus and Nauru as part of a policy that Australia says is meant to deter human traffickers from sending desperate people to its shores on rickety boats, usually by way of Indonesia.Go to Home Page »Ernesto and Raúl Flores, the identical-twin protagonists of Lauren Markham’s “The Far Away Brothers: Two Young Migrants and the Making of an American Life,” are not covered by DACA. They arrived in this country too late, in 2013. Technically, they did have a home to go back to, because their parents still lived in El Salvador. But danger had driven the boys away. Their town, like all of El Salvador, was bursting with gangs. They were so desperate to escape that they made the journey to the United States on their own. (Markham has changed their names to protect them.)Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Readers follow the Flores twins as they make the decision, at 17, to leave El Salvador; undertake the grueling passage to the United States; and settle in Oakland, Calif., where their older brother, Wilber, has been eking out a living, having made the trek to America himself years before. (It was in Oakland that Markham met the twins. She was a program coordinator at their high school.) The twins suddenly lead the lives of both children and adults, balancing jobs with gym class, legal paperwork with texts from jealous girlfriends.We also follow the travails of the Flores clan back home. Their experiences offer a window onto the deterioration of a nation.One of the finest virtues of “The Far Away Brothers” is that it makes vibrantly real an issue that some see only as theoretical, illuminating aspects of the immigrant experience normally hidden from view. The obstacles the twins faced in getting their visas could be paradoxical, diabolical and sometimes downright ridiculous. Who would have known that their fate could ultimately hinge on finding a working fax machine in a small town in El Salvador? And on getting a signature from their parents, when the cruelty of their parents was the “official” reason they fled? (The real reason: A homicidal uncle was threatening to kill Ernesto, and enlisted the aid of a miniature goon squad to do the deed.)It is startling, too, to learn the many ways immigration takes its toll on families. Wilber seethes at his twin brothers for imposing on his time, consuming his money and disrupting his plans. “Just when things had started to stabilize and he was thinking about going back to school,” Markham writes, “his brothers appeared, needing food, a place to sleep and Bob Marley T-shirts.” The twins bicker with one another about living arrangements and irresponsible choices. Their oldest sister, still living back home, fumes about the family debt. Their parents, poor farmers, borrowed $14,000 to smuggle the two boys up north. It was an extravagant price, carrying with it an even more extravagant interest rate.But Ernesto and Raúl are adolescent boys, with adolescent-boy yearnings and adolescent-boy senses of judgment. They find work, but they also succumb to the temptations that most teenagers do. They buy Nikes and iPhones and burgers from McDonald’s. Rent costs a fortune. Pretty much everything costs a fortune. At the end of each month, they have almost no money to send home. “I’m afraid I’m going crazy,” Raúl tells his mother over the phone, when he rallies in earnest to pay off the twins’ debt, working long hours and skimping on food.Markham infuses her narrative with facts and figures and policy particulars without ever once getting tangled up in them. She walks us through the fine print of immigration law, the workings of the legal system and the infrastructure designed around immigrants (housing unaccompanied minors is an awfully big business). She also provides a brief overview of El Salvador’s recent history. It is a ghastly one. By 2013, one-third of its population resided in the United States.But Markham mainly focuses on the problems of the present. Build a beautiful wall? Impossible. We’ve already got 650 miles of one, a dotted line of fences along the border. “To connect all of them would mean building through massive swaths of harsh deserts and high mountains,” she writes, with a price tag that would likely run in the tens of billions of dollars. Obama comes in for criticism, too. His administration deported more than two and a half million immigrants, the most by any president in our country’s history.From some Americans’ perspective, immigrants are a threat to our economic and national security. But from an immigrant’s perspective, the United States can be a land of mixed promise, flowing honey and curdled milk. “To be so very lucky and so terribly unlucky could disorient a person,” Markham writes. “You never knew where the next punch might come from, or if it would come at all.”See More »Go to Home Page »The newly elected City Council speaker, Corey D. Johnson, on Thursday accused New York City police officers and federal law enforcement agents of acting violently during an immigrant rights protest in which two council members and more than a dozen other demonstrators were arrested.The protest began at the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building in Lower Manhattan and continued down Broadway as demonstrators tried to block an ambulance that was carrying an immigrant rights leader, Ravi Ragbir. A lawyer for Mr. Ragbir, an immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago who had been fighting deportation, said that he had fainted during a meeting with immigration officials after being told that he was to be detained.“It got a little too rough here today from law enforcement,” said Mr. Johnson, who also took part in the protest. He spoke a few feet from where officers stood over a group of handcuffed protesters, including Mr. Williams. Angrily addressing a senior police official at the scene, Mr. Johnson said, “Your people were out of control!”Referring to the police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, he added, “I want the P.C. to call me now!”As the chaotic scene unfolded on the street in front of City Hall, mayoral aides and other city officials came out of the building to watch.Later on Thursday, at a City Hall news conference, Mr. Johnson, who was elected as speaker on Jan. 3, said the protest had been peaceful and that it “turned needlessly violent at the hands of ICE agents, and there were some members of the N.Y.P.D. who were involved as well.” A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the federal agents involved were not with ICE but were officers with the Federal Protective Services who guard federal buildings.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Johnson said that even though he was not blocking the ambulance carrying Mr. Ragbir, a police officer “shoved me and almost knocked me over.”Mr. Johnson said that he had a brief telephone conversation with Mr. O’Neill, who told him that the police were reviewing videotape of the episode.A Police Department spokeswoman said that 18 people were arrested, but it was not immediately clear what the charges were.Mr. Ragbir, 53, became a permanent resident of the United States in 1994. In 2000 he was convicted of wire fraud in a case related to loan documents, according to his lawyer, Alina Das.After regaining consciousness he was handcuffed and put into an ambulance, according to his wife, Amy Gottlieb. Then, what had started as a peaceful rally turned raucous when word spread of his detention. Protesters rushed to try to block the ambulance.A Fire Department spokesman said that Mr. Ragbir had been taken to Bellevue Hospital Center for evaluation and the ICE spokeswoman said he was later taken into custody.Go to Home Page »That is when events turned chaotic.His lawyer from New York University Immigrant Rights Clinic, Alina Das, said that as he was regaining consciousness she argued that she was still pursuing legal remedies for Mr. Ragbir. She said that Scott Mechkowski, the assistant field office director for ICE, dismissed her arguments and had officers handcuff Mr. Ragbir.An ambulance called for Mr. Ragbir was met with angry protesters as it left the federal building. The protest extended onto Broadway and toward City Hall and council members Ydanis Rodriguez and Jumaane D. Williams were among the 18 arrested.Ms. Gottlieb rode to Lower Manhattan Hospital of NewYork-Presbyterian in the ambulance with Mr. Ragbir, she said. There, Ms. Gottlieb said, she was told to get out of the ambulance, which then left with Mr. Ragbir inside. Ms. Gottlieb learned later that it had taken him to a hospital devoid of protesters, Bellevue Hospital Center, for evaluation. From there, the New York Police Department provided an escort for federal immigration vehicles to the Holland Tunnel; unbeknown to his wife, lawyer and supporters, Mr. Ragbir was soon on a plane to Miami, where he was placed in a federal detention center.Late Thursday night, in response to a lawsuit brought by Mr. Ragbir’s lawyers, a Federal District Court judge in Manhattan granted him a temporary stay of removal and a hearing on Jan. 29 to determine whether the agents were right to detain him.The judge, Katherine B. Forrest, ordered Mr. Ragbir to be detained in the New York area so that he could be near his lawyer and family. On Friday, the government contested the order. A hearing that will deal with whether he can be brought back from Miami will be held in the District Court of the Southern District of New York on Tuesday.Mr. Ragbir became an immigrant rights activist because of his own case. He came to the United States in 1991 from Trinidad and Tobago. He had been a lawful permanent resident when he was convicted of wire fraud in 2000. After he served his sentence, Mr. Ragbir was ordered deported in 2006 and detained by immigration officials.In 2011, the New York field office of ICE granted him a stay of removal. Last April, he was granted an extension of that stay, but only until Jan. 19, eight days after his check-in.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last week, a co-founder of New Sanctuary in New York was detained; Jean Montrevil, a native of Haiti, was picked up near his home in Far Rockaway, Queens, two weeks before a scheduled check-in.“It seems really clear to us that this is an escalation of retaliation, not just against individual rights leaders, but against the right of the movement to exist,” said Mary Small, the policy director for Detention Watch Network, an immigrant rights group.Rachael Yong Yow, a spokeswoman for the New York field office of ICE, said in a statement on Thursday that in the last 12 years Mr. Ragbir’s immigration case has undergone extensive judicial review at multiple levels.“In each review, the courts have uniformly held that Mr. Ragbir does not have a legal basis to remain in the U.S.,” she said. “He has since exhausted his petitions and appeals through the immigration courts, the Board of Immigration Appeals, and the U.S. District Court. He will remain in custody pending removal to Trinidad.”Ms. Gottlieb said she understood the legal disagreements over the case, but questioned the government’s lack of transparency in its operations.“Basic human decency requires that his wife and lawyers know where he is, so that we don’t live in a country where people are whisked away to secret facilities,” Ms. Gottlieb said.Ms. Yong Yow declined to comment on the pending hearing.Follow Liz Robbins on Twitter: @nytlizrobbinsSee More »Go to Home Page »Supported byWhat does Trump’s crackdown look like in real life? In Lawrence, Kan., the other day, immigration agents handcuffed a beloved chemistry professor as he was leaving his home to drive his daughter to school. Then they warned his crying wife and children, ages 7 to 14, that they could be arrested if they tried to hug him goodbye, and drove off with him — leaving a shattered family behind.“I’m a normal 12-year-old with a dad like everybody else’s dad,” the daughter he was about to drive that morning, Naheen Jamal, told me. “I don’t understand why this is happening.”Her dad, Syed A. Jamal, 55, had been in America for 30 years, having arrived legally from Bangladesh as a student, before overstaying his visa. He loved Kansas and settled in Lawrence, teaching at local colleges and volunteering at local schools — even running for the school board. He coached students in science and sports.But President Trump, you say that these people are “criminals, drug dealers, rapists” and that we must be protected from them.Jamal, who seems just about the least dangerous person in America, is now in jail pending deportation to Bangladesh. A court intervened with a temporary stay as the government was trying to rush him out of the country.While this arrest has done nothing to make anyone safer, it is devastating for three American citizens in particular — his children. Their mom, Angela, also of Bangladeshi origin, donated a kidney last year, and Jamal is the only source of family income.Researchers have found that such children often bounce around among relatives, suffer in school and display self-destructive behaviors, such as cutting themselves.“It’s insane,” said Marci Leuschen, a high school biology teacher and friend of the Jamal family who has helped organize a campaign in Lawrence to support the family. Some 500 people showed up at a local church to write letters in support of Jamal, and Leuschen said some were Trump supporters who were aghast that the immigration crackdown meant locking up their friend.Thank you, President Trump, for defending us from such “bad hombres” — even if Professor Jamal hasn’t been accused of any violence, in contrast to your (recently ousted) staff secretary.Naheen said that the outpouring of community support has overwhelmed her. “It’s what keeps me going,” she told me. “Everyone in my community, I feel so grateful to them.”Jamal earned a graduate degree in pharmaceutical sciences, worked as a researcher in cancer and genetics and became renowned for helping others. He even assisted elderly neighbors with their weekly shopping and checked on their medicines.Jamal has had a tortuous series of interactions with the impossibly complex immigration system. Several years ago, immigration authorities ruled that he had overstayed his visa, but the Obama administration exercised discretion, and (like countless others) he was allowed to stay if he reported in regularly. So Jamal had a temporary work permit and checked in with the immigration authorities, most recently on Jan. 7. Everything seemed to be fine — until the immigration officers decided for some reason to blow up his family’s life.Thank you, Mr. President, for shielding us from the “worst of the worst” chemistry professors.Carl Rusnok, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, did not try to argue that Jamal is a threat. He said that the priority is to arrest criminals (as it was under Barack Obama) but that no one is excluded.I do believe it’s important to hold individuals to account for misconduct. So I tried to ask Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen why she is determined to destroy the lives of the Americans in the Jamal family. She did not respond, perhaps because she was too busy being a good citizen helping elderly neighbors with their groceries. Or maybe just deporting “savage” immigrants to protect Americans.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSMixed messages, backtracking and a bit of verbal combat after a bipartisan meeting between President Trump and Democratic Party leaders have added confusion to the fate of DACA. Three New York Times reporters, Maggie Haberman, Peter Baker, and Glenn Thrush, explain what happened.WASHINGTON — As Democrats warily prepare to negotiate an immigration deal with President Trump, they face an unexpected political foe: many of the 800,000 young, undocumented immigrants threatened with deportation whom they are championing.The pressure from some immigrant activists to reject any compromise that would tighten border security has frustrated Democratic leaders, who recognize the political risks of being labeled the party of open borders — a potentially lethal tag as they seek to regain support from working-class voters across the Midwest.Fearful of concessions to Mr. Trump that could increase immigration enforcement aimed at their families and friends, the activists are targeting Democratic congressional leaders with loud political protests. And Democratic politicians may be vulnerable. They have already shifted to the left on a number of issues, such as health care, as they try to take advantage of liberal fervor stoked by the Trump era.But moving too far to the left on border security could hold serious risks for a party that lost the presidency with defeats in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan and Iowa — all states where immigration remains a hot-button issue.John Feehery, a Republican strategist, said a Democratic pushback on border security would reinforce “the perception that the Democratic Party has largely abandoned and forgotten about the white working class.”So far, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leaders, are staying pragmatic, even in the face of protests that have been personal and cutting. (Activists called Ms. Pelosi a liar in San Francisco.)They have already signaled that they are willing to consider Republican demands for increased enforcement along the border with Mexico in exchange for a legislative fix to the threatened Obama-era program called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which protects young immigrants brought to the country as children.“It is naïve for us to believe that we will get 12 Republicans to vote for DACA or the Dream Act without putting something on the table,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, an co-author of the Dream Act, which would offer a path to citizenship for certain undocumented immigrants who arrived as children. “There’s always going to be a group that wants more. There are some people who want all or nothing.”Democrats need to be mindful not just of white working-class voters but all voters, said Cornell Belcher, who worked as one of President Barack Obama’s pollsters during his 2008 presidential campaign. Democrats have to “thread a fine needle,” he said, because polls show that voters broadly “feel as though their borders need to be more secure.”But activists worry that any compromise could carry a very personal price: Their own long-term safety might be secured only in exchange for an increased threat of deportation for their undocumented parents and friends who do not qualify for such protections under the program.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.That is a deal that many of them are not willing to take.“We are going to do whatever it takes to push both parties to pursue what we are demanding,” said Cristina Jiménez, executive director of United We Dream. “We don’t want a situation where my brother, who has DACA, will have relief from deportation, and we will have more enforcement and more ICE agents who end up going after my mom and my dad.”Mr. Trump is under pressure from inside and outside his administration to insist on an array of tough immigration control measures in exchange for what his supporters view as “amnesty” for the undocumented immigrants. Administration officials say he will soon release a set of principles that will guide his deal-making with the Democrats.Immigration activists reject such demands as meanspirited and too far-reaching. Previous legislative efforts during the administrations of George W. Bush and Mr. Obama considered that breadth of immigration enforcement, but only in exchange for a path to citizenship for all 12 million of the undocumented immigrants in the country, not the smaller pool of so-called Dreamers.“I think Senator Schumer crumbles under pressure just so he can deliver on something,” said Cesar Adrian Vargas, an immigrant-rights advocate and a DACA recipient.But the larger constellation of immigrant-rights groups are divided.Veteran activists view the no-compromise strategy as shortsighted and unlikely to succeed. While few said they were willing to work directly with Mr. Trump the way they worked with Mr. Bush during past immigration fights, they also said they recognized the need to compromise.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I don’t think someone who is literally throwing rocks at you and demonizing you can have credibility at the table to say they want to engage,” Ms. Murguía said.White House officials have not been on strategy conference calls organized by the immigration groups, as some of Mr. Bush’s aides were during the legislative efforts to pass an immigration overhaul in 2006 and 2007. But immigration activists and lawmakers who went through those unsuccessful fights said they could not win without compromising.That drama is likely to play out at the end of the year as lawmakers in both parties face a mid-December deadline to fund the government and extend some popular initiatives like the Children’s Health Insurance Program. The expectation is that Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, will allow the immigration issue to be settled as part of the budget deal.If that happens, some immigration rights activists say Democrats will have no choice but to accept some Republican demands in exchange for legalizing the young immigrants.Democrats also must weigh the political risk of being seen as weak on security issues as they try to recover from their 2016 losses.During the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s annual conference last month, Kathleen Wells, a black radio host, challenged several members of Congress to explain why black Americans should embrace allowing more immigrants to remain in the United States who might compete with them for jobs. Representative Karen Bass, Democrat of California, responded by saying it was critically important that blacks and other minorities not allow themselves to be “divided and pitted against each other.”Shortly after protesters interrupted a news conference she was holding in San Francisco last month, Ms. Pelosi told reporters that she understood the activists’ frustration, but said they were “completely wrong.”“We are determined to get Republicans votes to pass the clean Dream Act,” she said. “Is it possible to pass a bill without some border security? Well, we’ll have to see.”See More »Go to Home Page »When news leaked on Monday that President Trump had decided to dismantle Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) — the 2012 policy that granted administrative relief to some 800,000 undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as minors — some commentators tried to find a ray of hope in the dismal forecast. Trump, they noted, would give Congress six months to save the DACA-protected “Dreamers” from deportation with a legislative fix. Never mind that House Republicans sabotaged a chance to help Dreamers in 2013, when John Boehner, the House speaker, refused to hold a vote on an immigration-reform bill that had passed in the Senate to a vote on the House floor. Now, NPR reported, Republicans might favor a bill introduced by Representative Carlos Curbelo of Florida that would give Dreamers a path to citizenship. “Overwhelmingly, Republicans tell me: ‘Yes, I could support giving these young immigrants permanent status in our country,’ ” Curbelo told “All Things Considered,” “ ‘as long as we continue moving towards better border security, the enforcement of our immigration laws.’ ” Yet among the undocumented activists whom I got to know while reporting in Arizona earlier this year, such a compromise is hardly viewed with relief. Rather it is the Catch-22 that they have been dreading ever since Trump was elected.By the time Senators Bernie Sanders and Dick Durbin held a private round table with immigrant rights leaders in December 2016, the general sentiment within the movement had become: divided, we fall. Erika Andiola, the first president of the Arizona Dream Act Coalition, argued that Democrats should filibuster any legislation that targeted undocumented immigrants, even if it helped Dreamers. Greisa Martinez, the advocacy director for United We Dream, who also attended the meeting in Sanders’s office, told me: “It’s not a choice between do you protect the Dreamers or do you protect the broader community.” She continued: “We believe that our responsibility is to be able to do both things at once. One does not come at the cost of the other.”That idealistic unity may have begun to fracture 11 days ago, when leaks began suggesting that Trump might terminate DACA, a scenario that provoked terror among DACA recipients. In their DACA applications, they were required to provide the federal government with detailed information about themselves and their parents — names, addresses — in order to gain work permits, driver’s licenses and other benefits of deferred action.“Can you imagine? The government made a promise to us: come forward, come out of the shadows and we’re going to promise you that you’re not going to be in deportation proceedings,” Reyna Montoya, a Dreamer in Phoenix, told me. “But they deferred our deportation, and now we’re there in the line.” Worried that Trump might kill the program in a late-night tweet, Montoya took to setting her alarm clock for 5 a.m., so she could start each morning by checking whether her DACA protections had been destroyed.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In many cases, the stress of such uncertainty was felt not only by Dreamers but also by their families. Their fears extended beyond the nightmarish possibility of being tracked down through the information volunteered in DACA applications. Though the general public often imagines DACA recipients as college students, many of them are in fact parents or full-time employees whose relatives depend on their legal income for survival. And many undocumented family members have placed assets like cars or homes under a DACA recipient’s name, or relied on a DACA child’s Social Security number to take out loans. Even Andiola, a well-placed DACA recipient who is now the political director of Our Revolution, could lose the ability to make mortgage payments on the house that she bought for her mother, Maria Guadalupe Arreola. Arreola told me that she knows many families in the same predicament. Regardless of whether immigration agents deport the Dreamers, with DACA gone, she said, their families “will be ruined.”Carlos Garcia, executive director of the immigrant rights group Puente Arizona, views last week’s prolonged uncertainty as a calculated move, designed to splinter the undocumented community. “I think it’s sadistic,” he said. The six-month delay in implementing an end to DACA isn’t a kindness, he argued. It would function like a “ticking clock” to pressure Dreamers to accept whatever legislation Congress cobbles together — even legislation, like “Kates’s Law,” which increases penalties for migrants who try to return after deportation, or which includes funding for a border wall, a measure that would otherwise be vigorously opposed. It could also kneecap protests by other progressive activists, who might feel that they should “sit back” for the sake of 800,000 DACA recipients, regardless of what a congressional solution might mean for the lives of millions of other undocumented immigrants. The question on some parents’ minds, according to the Puente organizer Maria Castro, may be: Am I O.K. with being persecuted in order to save our child? Castro said: “I don’t think there’s an answer to that communitywide.”The stakes feel especially high after Trump’s recent pardon of Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff of Arizona’s Maricopa County. Arpaio was voted out of office in 2016 after multiple lawsuits and a Pulitzer-winning investigation by The East Valley Tribune exposed his abuse of power, corruption and neglect of basic policing. Low points in Arpaio’s tenure include the death of Deborah Braillard, who died in a diabetic coma in a Maricopa County jail after being left to lie in her own feces and vomit for 72 hours, expansive “crime suppression” sweeps of Latino neighborhoods, stalled investigations of sex crimes and attempts to intimidate two county supervisors and a sitting federal judge. Last month Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt of court for defying a federal judge’s order to stop detaining people based solely on suspicion of their immigration status. According to Politico, his pardon has bolstered the “constitutional sheriff” movement, whose members believe that county sheriffs do not need to submit to federal law. “We hear from the opposite side that we have to end DACA because it was an overreach of power,” Montoya said, “but yet you’re willing to pardon someone who stands for hate and for abuse of power.” Andiola cried with anger when she heard the news.“No greater good can be done for the overall health and well-being of our republic than preserving and strengthening the impartial rule of law,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Tuesday afternoon, as he announced the administration’s decision to rescind DACA. “Societies where the rule of law is subject to political whims and personal biases tend to become societies afflicted by corruption, poverty and human suffering.” But the close timing of Arpaio’s pardon and DACA’s termination suggests that under Trump and Sessions, the rule of law will not be impartial: It will be applied more strictly to Dreamers, who were raised as Americans, and who must now scramble for a way to regain DACA’s protections without sacrificing their own parents.Marcela Valdes is a contributing writer for the magazine.Go to Home Page »The plan Mr. Trump supports seeks to reduce immigration by curbing the ability of American citizens and legal residents to bring family members into the country. As Mr. Trump told Congress earlier this year, “It is a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially.”That approach — making sure new immigrants are not a burden on the country’s safety net and are able to prosper financially — is at the core of Australia’s immigration laws.Australia takes in more immigrants relative to its population than the United States. The country has two distinct systems: a points-based system, which favors people based on their English proficiency and the skills they have to fill needed jobs, and an employer-nomination system, which allows businesses to sponsor people for jobs.A White House official said on Wednesday that it had looked at both the Australian and Canadian immigration systems and “added things that made sense for America.”“One of the things I think is the most compelling about the Australian system is the efforts to make sure that immigrants are financially self-sufficient,” Stephen Miller, a senior White House aide, said in discussing the plan with reporters Wednesday.Under the plan proposed by Republican senators, applicants for legal residency in the United States would be judged on the basis of education, language and job abilities, favoring those who can speak English. They would be able to financially support themselves and have skills that contribute to the economy. Currently, most legal immigrants are admitted to the United States based on family ties to those already in the country.“We are establishing a new entry system that’s points-based,” Mr. Miller said in explaining the Trump administration’s approach. “Can they support themselves and their families financially? Do they have a skill that will add to the U.S. economy? Are they being paid a high wage?”Under the Australian system, applicants get the most points — up to 60 — for having skills in needed areas, and fewer points — up to 20 — for fluency in English. They are also awarded points for their age group, with the 25-to-32 age range being most desirable, and older people being less so. Applicants get up to 20 points for having a doctorate from an Australian educational institution or its equivalent.While the program seeks to attract immigrants to fill occupations in areas where needed skills are in short supply, some experts believe the approach has been largely ineffective.“Australia has this image internationally that our points-tested skill program is delivering a high quality, skilled work force,” said Bob Birrell, president of the Australian Population Research Institute. “I think that’s a myth. Our points-selected skilled migration program is full of holes.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rather than favor people from overseas who have significant work experience and skills considered important in Australia, the points system has been watered down to favor foreigners who have recently graduated from Australian universities, Mr. Birrell said.“There’s no assessment as to whether the skills that the applicant possesses are actually in demand here,” Mr. Birrell continued.The program has also been criticized as overly complex in its skills criteria and as inherently favoring white applicants because of its language and educational requirements.Like the United States, Australia has been very welcoming of immigrants, with roughly 27 percent of its population foreign-born, coming from more than 200 countries. It formalized the points-based system in 1989 and has updated it several times, most recently in 2011.“Some suggest a points test is a crude measure that does not account for ‘soft’ attributes desired by employers such as communications skills, the ability to learn on the job, or resilience,” he wrote, adding that the system may not be nimble enough to adjust to the country’s employment needs.“This raises questions as to the government’s ability to accurately project shortages in the labor market, leading to underemployment or over-employment in some areas,” he wrote.See More »Go to Home Page »Repairs on the Staten Island Expressway. Vegetables for nutritional programs in the Bronx. Programs for seniors in Manhattan and Queens. New schools in Brooklyn. The $7 billion from the federal government that funds all these aspects of New York life could be affected by one question on the 2020 census: Are you a United States citizen?That question is provoking fear among the city’s elected officials, who worry that because of its inclusion on the census questionnaire, some immigrants may decline to participate.Census information is not supposed to be shared with other parts of the government, but the Trump administration has said that all undocumented immigrants are subject to deportation, leading many to say they do not trust what the government will do with their information.Immigrants or children of immigrants make up nearly 60 percent of the city’s population, and the ripple effect could be powerful. Officials are concerned that could lead to an inaccurate population count in New York.“People have identified this as an immigrant problem, and that’s really not accurate,” said Joseph J. Salvo, the chief demographer for the Department of City Planning.The city’s education department comes to him for the data it uses to redraw school zones, he said, as does the health department when it needs to understand illness rates. Businesses use federal information to determine whether to open in underserved neighborhoods.“Those immigrants are side by side with children who are citizens, with an uncle who is a legal permanent resident, with the cousin who is undocumented. All of those people are afraid,” Mr. Salvo said.On Wednesday, the New York Immigration Coalition, an activist group, announced its New York Counts 2020 campaign alongside congressional and local elected officials. The effort has three prongs: to fight the question; to pressure the United States Census Bureau to protect the information of all New Yorkers; and to reassure residents that they can safely respond.At the news conference, Nydia Velázquez, a Democrat representing Queens, Brooklyn and Lower Manhattan, said she is co-sponsoring legislation in the House of Representatives that will require the Commerce Department to provide advance notice to Congress before changing questions on the census. Representative Grace Meng, a Democrat from Queens who sits on the committee that funds the census bureau, said she and her colleagues are considering withholding funds for 2019 unless the question is removed.In a public hearing last week before the question was added, Ms. Meng confronted the Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, whose department oversees the U.S. Census Bureau. “I told him directly that this is about accuracy; this is mandated by the Constitution to count every living person.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the last census count, in 2010, the city’s response rate was 62 percent, but some heavily immigrant communities, like Washington Heights and the South Bronx, exceeded that, with more than 70 percent of residents answering the census questionnaires.Adriano Espaillat, a Democrat who in 2010 was representing Washington Heights and Harlem in the State Assembly, said that was in part because of a robust effort by volunteers to convince residents their participation counted. Mr. Espaillat, who is now in Congress, said he could not yet encourage undocumented residents to take part.“I want to fight this question back, first,” he said. “If not in Congress, then in the courts. If at the end of this the question remains, then we’re going to have to come together to decide the messaging.”“The census data is like the electrical system,” Professor Reamer said. “It reaches everywhere in ways that are not readily seen.”For New York, inaccurate numbers could have effects as small as a serving at lunch. “The Asian-American community is the fastest growing senior population in the city,” said Howard Shih, the director of research and policy for the Asian-American Federation in New York. Census figures, he said, could determine something as mundane, but essential, as how much food a senior center would need to order to accommodate this population.The data compiled once a decade serves as the basis of comparison for smaller, sample surveys compiled annually.“Anything that affects the propensity of people to answer the census is of concern to us,” said Mr. Salvo, the demographer. “The Census Bureau’s first priority should always be maximum response. Anything they do to compromise that, frankly, works against their main mission.”“The Census Bureau,” he said, “creates reality.”Go to Home Page »Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your InboxThe Senate sponsors of the bill say their system, modeled on merit systems used by Canada and Australia, would make the United States more competitive. If passed — and immigration overhaul has defied decades of attempts — it would replace standards largely established in the Johnson administration.How Would Americans Score Under the RAISE Act?Only about two percent of American citizens would pass the test. Most would fall far below the cut off of 30.Does not include points awarded for extraordinary achievement (such as earning a Nobel Prize) or significant investments (investments of more than $1.3 million).Source: American Community SurveyWould You Pass? Answer These Five QuestionsThere are some limits to the level of detail that the census can provide. And we have to take some liberties with how the questions asked in the census apply to the actual criteria set in the Raise Act. However, census data was able to answer all the major questions in the point system that don’t involve winning medals or investing large sums of money.Why would so few Americans pass? Let’s look at each point category.To be clear, a passing score doesn’t guarantee entry. The act stipulates a cap of 140,000 people to be allowed via the points system.It would also make it easier for the government to tweak the dials according to the kind of skills and jobs it thinks the economy needs.“The keys to these systems are that they’re very flexible; you can admit people in their early 30s but with not that much work experience,” said Kate Hooper, policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute. “But you can also admit someone who is in their late 50s but has very relevant work experience.”Employee sponsorship solves some of these problems. But a system based exclusively on employee sponsorship ties new immigrants very closely to their employer, making it harder for them to negotiate for higher wages or better working conditions.Canada and Australia have integrated a points-based system with employer sponsorship, awarding high scores for merit but also for applicants with a job offer from domestic employer.At stake is what amounts to a blip in the city budget. But for officials in New York, as in several other cities with large immigrant populations, it is about the principle more than the federal money they stand to lose for their so-called sanctuary city policies.On Wednesday, the office of Mayor Bill de Blasio sent a letter to the Justice Department asserting that the city was cooperating with immigration officials to the extent required under federal law and that the city should not, as the Justice Department has argued, forfeit a $4.3 million federal law enforcement grant.The letter, and others sent from cities like New Orleans and Philadelphia, came amid a burst of activity on immigration in Washington. As the House prepared to vote on Thursday on two bills to crack down on undocumented immigrants who commit crimes, President Trump cheered the legislation for getting the “bad people” out of American cities.New York officials said the city’s pledge to protect hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrant residents did not mean the city was breaking federal law.“Being a sanctuary city does not mean that you are out of compliance or trying to violate federal law in any way,” Nisha Agarwal, the commissioner for immigrant affairs, said in an interview. “We can promote policies and programs that are supportive of immigrant communities and protect public safety.”A Justice Department spokesman said he could not comment on how long it would take to review the letters.New York City was awarded a three-year grant in September under a program named for Edward Byrne — a New York police officer killed on duty in 1988 — in part to hire operators to field 911 calls, crime analysts and prosecutors. If the Justice Department finds New York out of compliance, the city will have to return the money used so far, $128,000, and forgo the rest of the grant.In its letter, obtained by The New York Times, the city said that local law treated a person’s immigration status as private information and that any federal rule that forced the city to violate that privacy would amount to constitutional overreach. The letter also asserted that detainers, which request that law enforcement officials hold prisoners for up to 48 hours so that immigration officials can pick them up if they have an order of removal, were not mandatory.Under a 2014 city law, only people convicted of one or more of 170 felonies — such as arson, robbery or murder — within the last five years can be turned over to immigration enforcement agents, and only if the agents have a warrant.City officials said that the New York Police Department had received 198 detention requests from Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials since January and that none of them were found to be valid under city law. The Department of Correction, which runs the city’s jails, received 161 requests and cooperated on six — providing in each of those cases the time of the inmate’s release.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Trump administration has been focused on undocumented immigrants, particularly those who commit crimes.At the White House on Wednesday, President Trump praised the House measures as he met in the Cabinet Room with the relatives of people killed by undocumented immigrants. “We’re freeing up towns — actually we’re liberating towns, if you believe we have to do that in the United States of America,” he told reporters.Mr. Trump said the legislation being considered in Congress would honor Americans grieving for loved ones killed by immigrants who had been deported multiple times.“You lost the people that you love because our government refused to enforce our nation’s immigration laws, and that’s including the existing immigration laws,” Mr. Trump said.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Supported byAll around the country, there was a bitter debate about what to do with monuments to slavery and treason, most erected by white supremacists decades after the Civil War. Much of this debate, like our politics in general since November 2016, focused on the feelings of white voters who feared their history was being taken from them. So it was moving to hear a white Southern politician — a bluff, broad-shouldered guy who looks like a football coach in an inspirational Hollywood movie — try to see the statues from the perspective of his city’s African-American majority.In the second decade of the 21st century, Landrieu said, “asking African-Americans — or anyone else for that matter — to drive by property that they own occupied by reverential statues of men who fought to destroy the country and deny that person’s humanity seems perverse. It seems absurd.” He argued that a city is entitled to choose whom it venerates. “Unlike when these Confederate monuments were erected as symbols of white supremacy, we now have a chance to create not only new symbols, but to do it together, as one people,” he said.When I spoke to Landrieu in New York recently, he insisted he wasn’t laying the groundwork for a campaign and didn’t see a niche for himself in what will likely be a crowded field. Of course, that’s not quite a denial. I have no idea if he’d have a chance; I suspect he’s far too much of a centrist for most Democratic primary voters. (He certainly is for me.)Still, I’m glad to see him celebrated, because he’s done something, in his speech and his book, that other politicians should emulate. He’s tried to reckon with America’s sins while offering an optimistic, big-hearted and deeply patriotic defense of cosmopolitanism as the source of American greatness.Drawing on darker, older strains of American history, Trump has systematically attacked this post-civil-rights-era consensus. It’s one reason his presidency feels to many of us like such an existential assault. In defending Confederate statues, Trump has inveighed against removing historical symbols. Yet his administration is promiscuous in trashing the symbols of diversity. Indeed, for all his buffoonish ignorance, the power of symbols is something Trump understands far better than most politicians.Landrieu, the mayor of a city beloved for its hybrid, polyglot culture, is pushing back against this tide. In his book, he writes about serving in the state Legislature alongside David Duke, the former Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, whom he sees as a predecessor to Trump. He describes the way many Louisiana Republicans, aware of Duke’s popularity with their own voters, failed to take him on, leaving a “sinister spectacle” in which truth was lost. It taught him, he writes, about the need to confront bigotry and pull it up from the root: “There is no other way forward.”In these bleak times, it’s a lesson many others in public life should heed.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorIf it seems weird that Mr. Trump would propose Canada as a model for anything, that’s understandable. Americans, especially conservatives, love to mock their northern neighbor: for its accent, its apologetic manners, its food (oh, poutine) — and above all, for its supposedly softheaded, pinko style of government. And no wonder: With its liberal, tattooed prime minister, its universal health care, its enthusiastic embrace of pot and gay marriage and its generous refugee policies, Canada can sometimes seem downright Scandinavian.Yet when it comes to immigration, Canada’s policies are anything but effete. Instead, they’re ruthlessly rational, which is why Canada now claims the world’s most prosperous and successful immigrant population.Indeed, their contributions go all the way to the top. Two of the last three governors-general — Canada’s ceremonial heads of state — were born abroad (one in Haiti and one in Hong Kong), and the current cabinet has more Sikhs (four) than the cabinet of India.But Canada’s hospitable attitude is not innate; it is, rather, the product of very hardheaded government policies. Ever since the mid-1960s, the majority of immigrants to the country (about 65 percent in 2015) have been admitted on purely economic grounds, having been evaluated under a nine-point rubric that ignores their race, religion and ethnicity and instead looks at their age, education, job skills, language ability and other attributes that define their potential contribution to the national work force.No wonder this approach appeals to President Trump. He’s right to complain that America’s system makes no sense. The majority (about two-thirds in 2015) of immigrants to the United States are admitted under a program known as family reunification — in other words, their fate depends on whether they already have relatives in the country. Family reunification sounds nice on an emotional level (who doesn’t want to unite families?). But it’s a lousy basis for government policy, since it lets dumb luck — that is, whether some relative of yours had the good fortune to get here before you — shape the immigrant population.The result? Well, contrary to popular myth (and Mr. Trump’s rhetoric), immigrants to the United States also outperform native-born Americans in some ways, including business creation and obedience to the law. But their achievements pale next to those of first-generation Canadians.Mr. Trump has spoken about adopting a merit-based system before, and done nothing. And his speech in Iowa was short on specifics (he had more details on his idea for putting solar panels atop his border wall). But if he’s truly serious about reform, the president could do a lot worse than look north for answers. He wouldn’t even have to admit where he got them from. Canadians are a modest, unassuming lot, used to being overlooked and overshadowed. They won’t mind keeping his secret.Jonathan Tepperman is the managing editor of Foreign Affairs and the author of “The Fix: How Countries Use Crises to Solve the World’s Worst Problems.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorLONDON — The Labour Party is surging in British polls. That’s after a June general election in which it unexpectedly won a remarkable 40 percent of the vote under the leadership of the much-derided Jeremy Corbyn. Young and previously disengaged voters were galvanized by a left-wing policy platform that pledged to deal with the wealth inequalities and economic hardships that affect so many people today.The challenge for the Labour Party is to devise a policy that honors Brexit voters’ decision but doesn’t dishonor its own values. That’s an especially tough circle to square when it comes to immigration. During the recent general election campaign, Labour conceded that the right to free movement within the European Union for member-state citizens would end post-Brexit. But the party leadership also championed migrants’ vital contributions to Britain, while promising to scrap the “bogus immigration targets” that have been set by the Conservative government and to guarantee the rights of European Union citizens living in Britain.This balancing act seemed to work for Labour’s alliance of Leave and Remain voters, consolidating support. But it involves delicate positioning.Some sections of the party are still urging Mr. Corbyn to harden his stance on the issue to appease the party’s traditional working-class base — which, according to this analysis, is never as ethnically diverse as, in actual fact, it is. Nevertheless, Labour will need to show how removing from millions of people the right to move and work freely across the European Union is a progressive policy.This is not impossible. Arguably, free movement of labor has made migration harder for those outside the European Union, whereas a Labour Brexit policy could equalize the criteria for all. But this approach might go awry if the European Union makes preferential trade access for Britain contingent on preferential treatment of migrants from within the union. Plus, of course, Labour would still have to sell the policy to a public that wants more immigration controls. So we’re back to where we started.The solution for Labour must be to be as bold in its desire to shift the migration narrative as it has been to move the national debate on economic issues. If the party is riding a progressive wave, there is an opportunity to bring more of the public on board — including people worried about immigration.With policies like the nationalization of rail and energy companies, a higher minimum wage and higher taxes on the top 5 percent of earners, the Labour Party succeeded in recapturing some voters who had been won over by the pro-Brexit, anti-immigrant U.K. Independence Party. Thousands of Labour campaigners, enthused by the Corbyn leadership, engaged in doorstep discussions that destigmatized migrants by shifting blame for people’s hardships onto a more deserving target: the government.Of course, racism is an animating force of its own. Bigotry is not tied to economic fortunes, and some will always resent hearing languages other than English spoken on their street. But those who hold such sentiments are a minority and not likely to support progressive parties, in any case. So it makes no sense for Labour to formulate its strategy with this cohort in mind.Most crucial in a hostile climate, the party’s language should stick with its manifesto promise that Labour “will not scapegoat migrants nor blame them for economic failures” — and sound less like Mr. Corbyn’s recent comments about foreign workers. Even optimistic experts agree that on the issue of immigration, long-incubated antipathies take time to change. But if it is possible to shift the mood on this, it is surely within the power of Labour’s current leadership, with its populist left-wing platform and an army of enthusiastic, progressive and campaign-ready supporters.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWhen Republicans in Texas passed a ban on so-called “sanctuary city” policies this spring, they appeared to be feeding on the momentum created by Donald J. Trump, who had made illegal immigration a centerpiece of his campaign. They were not alone. State lawmakers across the country are addressing issues created by immigration.That spike in activity is the result of a relatively subdued 2016. In the three years before that, states passed as many immigration laws as they have so far this year, if not more.This year, the legislation touched on a variety of subjects, including budgets, education and two issues Mr. Trump has long focused on: refugees and sanctuary cities, which seek to help or otherwise protect undocumented immigrants from what they view as overly harsh federal laws.Here’s a look at what state lawmakers were up to in the first half of the year.• 27 percent of the laws were related to budgeting. This legislation dealt with funding for immigration enforcement, immigration education, migrant and refugee programs, and other services.• 21 percent of the laws were related to law enforcement, including those that addressed immigration enforcement, legal services or consumer fraud.• 14 percent of the laws dealt with identification or licenses of some kind.• 13 percent dealt with civics or education, including residency or immigration requirements for access to higher education or financial aid.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The remaining laws addressed immigrant health, employment, public benefits and human trafficking.At least 36 states considered dozens of bills related to sanctuary cities, with Georgia, Indiana, Mississippi and Texas passing laws opposed to them.Governors vetoed nine bills related to sanctuary cities while 18 others were awaiting signatures as of the end of June.Four states — California, Illinois, Nebraska and New Jersey — adopted resolutions in support of refugees, in opposition to limits on travel from Muslim countries or both.Go to Home Page »Supported byLetterTo the Editor:Given the administration’s indiscriminate expansion of Immigration and Customs Enforcement activities, it is more critical than ever that government personnel be directed to use discretion when the apprehension of a parent places a child at risk. More than five million children in the United States have at least one undocumented parent, and 4.1 million of those children are American citizens.When a parent is taken into custody, immigration officials must ensure that detained parents can communicate with their children and make arrangements for their long-term care.MICHELLE BRANÉ, WASHINGTONThe writer is migrant rights and justice director at the Women’s Refugee Commission.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — In his seven months in office, President Trump has proved to be the commander in chief of mixed messages. But even for him, the nighttime tweet on Tuesday was a head-turner.By vowing to “revisit this issue,” Mr. Trump arguably took Congress off the hook by seeming to suggest that if lawmakers cannot agree, they need not worry about the political or human consequences because he may take unspecified action himself to protect the younger immigrants. But by his own argument earlier in the day, he does not have the power to do that.White House officials offered no immediate explanation about what the president intended by the message or how he could revisit the issue in six months. Asked during a media appearance with congressional leaders on Wednesday morning if he had any second thoughts on his decision, Mr. Trump said, “No second thoughts.”But the conflicting messages seemed to reflect what aides describe as the president’s own conflicting emotions about the issue.But when a reporter asked Mr. Trump about the decision during a media appearance with congressional leaders on Tuesday about his tax overhaul plans, the president stressed his sympathy for those in the program and his determination to work with Congress to enact legislation that would allow them to stay.There are roughly 800,000 current beneficiaries of the DACA program. Here’s who they are.“I have a great heart for the folks we’re talking about — a great love for them,” he said. “And people think in terms of children, but they’re really young adults. I have a love for these people, and hopefully now Congress will be able to help them and do it properly.”To create the program, Mr. Obama relied on an expansive interpretation of his executive power because Congress had failed to pass the Dream Act. Critics, including Mr. Sessions, then a senator, and his onetime aide, Stephen Miller, now a policy adviser to Mr. Trump, argued that Mr. Obama did not have the authority to single-handedly rewrite the law. Mr. Trump accepted that argument after a number of state attorneys general threatened to ask a court to invalidate the program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In phasing out the program over six months, instead of ending it immediately, Mr. Trump effectively challenged Congress to step in and save it by creating a hard deadline. The message Mr. Trump posted on Twitter on Tuesday evening vowing to revisit the matter if Congress did not do so, however, left many involved in the issue scratching their heads.“He’s taken it upon himself. It’s absurd,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates more limits on immigration. “It’s not surprising that he would do something like this to muddle the message because his own approach to the issue is muddled.”Mr. Krikorian said the president undercut his own strategy of getting Democrats to come to the table and agree to more immigration enforcement in exchange for congressional authorization to save the program.“What incentive do the Democrats now have to come to a deal because the president has basically said the deadline is not a real deadline?” Mr. Krikorian asked. “I missed that chapter in ‘The Art of the Deal.’ Maybe he had a ghost writer do it or something. That’s not how you negotiate. You don’t negotiate by starting on day one by negotiating with yourself.”Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, a pro-immigration group, said he interpreted the Twitter post to mean that Mr. Trump was taken back by the criticism of his decision to scrap the program.“My take is that he had been convinced by the likes of Sessions and Stephen Miller that his base would love it and the blowback would be muted,” Mr. Sharry said. “When it became clear through the day that just the opposite is true, along with the accusation that he was a coward for sending Sessions out to do his dirty work, he wanted to reassert that he has ‘heart’ and that the decision is his.”But the problem for Mr. Trump, he added, is that the president has now constrained his own ability to act because his own attorney general has concluded that the president does not have the power to do so. “Can he extend DACA if Congress doesn’t act? Sure,” Mr. Sharry said. “But will Sessions go along with it? No way. If Congress doesn’t act in the next six months, we’ll find out who the decider on this really is.”Follow Peter Baker on Twitter @peterbakernytGo to Home Page »Visa policies for six Muslim-majority countries were tightened last week after a scaled-back version of President Donald Trump’s travel ban was upheld by the Supreme Court. As the administration continues to grapple with immigration policy, here are three books that examine how immigration has changed the American landscape and what a country owes to outsiders, while in the realm of fiction, a recent novel zeros in on the experiences of two young refugees.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorLONDON — There is a sense of drift and stalemate about British politics today: A severely weakened prime minister who may soon be out of office. A public that is restless and anxious, as it becomes clear that our political leaders have failed to prepare people for the difficult decisions ahead on “Brexit.” And an influential minority still passionately opposed to the decision to leave the European Union.After the unexpected victory for national-communitarian sentiment in the Brexit referendum in 2016, the general election in Britain last month featured an equally unexpected showing by the well-educated, liberal pro-Europeans — especially younger ones — rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s so-called hard Brexit of prioritizing immigration control and leaving the European Union’s single market and customs union.But this stalemate between the country’s two dominant “values” blocs may turn out to be benign. Britons excel at constructive ambiguity, or “muddling through,” and a constructively ambiguous Brexit may be exactly what both Britain and Europe need.One thing is clear: The British decision to opt for the nation-state and self-government rather than the supranational embrace of the European Union is not going to be reversed, however quixotic it seems to the internationally minded everywhere.Opinion polls taken both before and after the June election suggest that around 70 percent of Britons think that it is the duty of the government to deliver Brexit. There is little regret among the 52 percent who originally backed leaving the European Union, and about half of the 48 percent who voted to remain now say that because it passed, it should go ahead.Nevertheless, a series of nudges and winks in the last few weeks from several of the senior British political players — above all, the Brexit secretary, David Davis — suggest that the election has left its mark and that British negotiators are edging away from a hard Brexit toward a “fuzzy” one, for when serious trade talks begin in October.This means a much longer transitional period than originally envisaged by both sides, possibly staying inside the European Union’s customs union in some modified form, and a much greater readiness on Britain’s part to compromise on continuing payments into the European Union’s budget (as well as a large onetime leaving fee) and on some continuing jurisdiction by the European Court of Justice.Curiously, as the BBC’s political editor, Laura Kuenssberg, suggested to me, the apparent stalemate election result that swept away the Conservative’s small majority in Parliament, while leaving them comfortably the largest party, may in the end have made no difference at all to the Brexit talks.“Part of the thinking behind Theresa May’s surprise decision to call the election for early June was that it would give her a bigger majority and thus empower her to make the compromises necessary in a long and difficult negotiation in which Britain has a relatively weak hand,” said Ms. Kuenssberg. “It now looks as if the compromises will be forced upon her by weakness rather than strength.”About three-quarters of all members of Parliament, including a majority in all the main parties, originally voted for Remain. A more pluralistic approach to Brexit, with greater input from the British Parliament, as well as from the devolved governments of Scotland and Wales, is now the order of the day.Voting to leave was always going to be a lot easier than actually leaving, especially when the referendum result gave politicians no indication as to what kind of Brexit people wanted. But according to Bronwen Maddox, the director of the Institute for Government, a nonpartisan think tank, more progress in preparing for Brexit has been made behind the scenes at the highest levels of the civil service than is generally acknowledged.“The problem is there are limits on how much preparation you can do,” she said. “You cannot do all the logistical work on preparing for a new kind of customs union with the European Union until you know what has been agreed.”Britain’s reputation for good government and generally getting the big decisions right has taken a battering in recent months. But beneath the noisy political infighting, and more by accident than design, we may now be edging toward some sort of national consensus on a “fuzzy” Brexit. Moreover, a Brexit vote that was supposedly inspired by a narrowly provincial England, and that was predicted to tear Britain apart, has actually drawn it closer together, with both Scottish and Welsh nationalists losing ground in the June election.There remains one big problem: the European Union itself. Since the high point of success in the mid-1990s almost everything it has touched has turned bad — the clearest justification for Britain’s decision to leave. There was the politically overextended euro, which worsened the post-2010 eurozone crisis; the premature enlargement to the former Communist states of Eastern Europe, including unchecked free movement of people; the failure to secure Europe’s external border, which encouraged the refugee crisis of 2015-16. Not to mention second-order messes like the mishandling of the Ukrainian crisis.The European Union is run by Europe’s brightest and best, but many of them are driven by a post-national ideology for which there is no actual consensus. To many ordinary Europeans, the cure of European integration is worse than the disease. What is the point of pooling all that sovereignty if the resultant institutions cannot save you from global financial meltdown and cannot even regulate the new digital behemoths?The European Union is enjoying an unusual unity in the early stages of the Brexit negotiations. But if, come March 2019, we end up with a mutually harming deal, or no deal at all, Brussels is sure to be at least as much to blame as London’s negotiators, who are now more open to compromise than seemed likely a few months ago. Maybe it is Europe’s true-believers who need to embrace the spirit of constructive ambiguity.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAs Congress debates the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, which is set to expire on March 5, the rejected applicants have been scrambling to overcome the government’s error. Many have already lost their work permits, causing a cascade of consequences.Mauricio Noroña, a lawyer for the Immigrant Community Law Center in Manhattan called the 1,900 figure, “astounding.” He saw the devastating effects the mail delays had on one of his clients, whom he declined to name, saying she was afraid of repercussions from the government.“She lost her job, lost her apartment, and is now temporarily staying with family in her home state,” Mr. Noroña said. “More worrisome, our client is at risk of being placed in removal proceedings pending her DACA renewal, a process that may take months because U.S.C.I.S. didn’t commit to expedite affected cases.”A spokesman for the immigration agency, Steve Blando, said that the agency has given people 33 days to resubmit their renewal forms, but would not make the applications a priority. Nor would the agency extend their current permits to cover any gaps, or even make the permit, when received, retroactive.“There is no expedited processing for deferred action under DACA,” he said in a statement. “These DACA requests will be processed in accordance with standard procedures. An individual’s deferred action under the DACA policy begins the day U.S.C.I.S. approves the request and is generally valid for two years from the date of issuance.”Some applications sat for weeks without being delivered by the Postal Service, others arrived on time at designated collection centers in Chicago, Dallas and Phoenix, but were not processed on time because of courier problems.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This week, U.S.C.I.S. said it sent letters to more than “1,700 individuals,” and that more than 200 applicants resubmitted their renewals before the government invited them to do so.“The fact that that many individuals were affected shows that the deadline they imposed — which we always said was too short and too arbitrary — was too short even for the government to perform its functions properly,” Camille Mackler, the director of legal initiatives for the New York Immigration Coalition.The government is taking the blame for nearly half of those.Hasan Shafiqullah, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society of New York said he thought the number might even be higher.One of his clients whose application was rejected lost his DACA protections on Dec. 1, another lost them on Dec. 23, and two more will lose theirs soon. Without DACA permits, the immigrants cannot legally work and may not be eligible for college scholarships.According to the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank, about 122 people have been losing their DACA permits per day, a number calculated before the extent of the mail delays were known. The full effect of the mail delays may be felt for months — or even years.If an immigrant lives in the country illegally for any amount of time, it could have harmful repercussions, Ms. Mackler and Mr. Shafiqullah said. It could make it especially difficult for those who have turned 18 after their DACA permits expire to get green cards from employers.“Typically DACA folks are low income, and for anyone, the inability to work is difficult, especially people living paycheck to paycheck — it can be devastating,” Mr. Shafiqullah said.See More »Go to Home Page »The top lawyer for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office in Seattle has been charged with trying to steal the identities of seven people who were in immigration proceedings.The ICE chief counsel, Raphael A. Sanchez, was charged with one count of wire fraud and one count of aggravated identity theft, according to court documents filed on Monday in United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. He allegedly used the personal information “to obtain money and property by means of materially false and fraudulent pretenses” when their cases were under review by ICE, the charging document said.His fraud attempts allegedly involved American Express, JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, Capital One, Citibank and Discover Financial Services. They began in October 2013 and continued through Oct. 25, 2017.The documents said the seven people were at various stages of immigration proceedings when Mr. Sanchez had access to their identification information.In one instance in 2016, Mr. Sanchez allegedly used his work email account to send information to his personal Yahoo account about a person who had immigrated from China, identified as R.H. The email included a utility bill, images of the biographical page of R.H.’s Chinese passport and R.H.’s United States permanent resident card, the document said.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Sanchez also allegedly used, without “lawful authority,” other identification to commit the wire fraud, such as R.H.’s social security number and birth date, the document said.Mr. Sanchez is scheduled to make his first appearance in court on Thursday, his lawyer, Cassandra Stamm, said in an email. She confirmed Mr. Sanchez had resigned from his job effective on Monday, but declined to provide further details.The Department of Justice’s Public Integrity Section, which pursues efforts to combat corruption by public officials, is overseeing the case.It was not clear whether any of the seven people whose identities were tampered with suffered financial or legal difficulties as a result of the alleged actions. ICE said in a statement that its internal affairs office conducted the investigation.See More »Go to Home Page »SYDNEY, Australia — A man set himself on fire after a standoff with the police near the Sydney offices of the Department of Immigration and Border Protection on Friday, the police said, unleashing screams and smoke and prompting a rapid rescue by firefighters and the police.“Police made attempts to negotiate, however the man lit himself on fire,” the police said in a statement. “Police were ready with a fire extinguisher and extinguished the man.”The police declined to identify the man or his nationality but said that it was an act of protest and that the man was not seriously hurt.“He was protesting at the Immigration Department this afternoon,” Detective Superintendent David Donohue said at a news conference. He added that the man “is a person who suffers from mental illness.”The police appear to have been well prepared in part because they said they had previous experience with the man and because threats of self-immolation in protest against Australia’s immigration policies are somewhat common.Officials and employees with the department said there were a handful of cases each year in which asylum applicants threatened to set themselves on fire over a rejection of their asylum claims or other frustrations.The department’s offices in Sydney, which are in a busy business district near a university, are often put on lockdown during such instances — as they were again on Friday around 2 p.m.Some employees who had gathered outside said they were familiar with the routine and the police response.SYDNEY CBD: Southbound lanes of Lee St are closed between George St and Regent St due to a police operation. Allow extra travel time.The police said the man suffered “superficial burns,” mainly to his leg.Yuko Usui, 39, who was working at a cafe nearby, described seeing smoke and hearing what seemed to be a gruesome ordeal.“I heard somebody screaming very bad for like 15 minutes,” she said.Employees from the immigration office said the area smelled strongly of kerosene. A video from the scene showed a man being loaded into an ambulance.It is not yet clear what exactly the man was protesting. It could have been a personal protest, related to his own immigration status or that of a loved one, or a broader act of political resistance against Australian immigration policy.Australia’s approach to immigration is a controversial mix of tough policies to limit immigration, but also partial acceptance of it.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At the same time, however, Mr. Turnbull and his immigration minister, Peter Dutton, have actively promoted the country’s strict refusal to allow anyone to reach Australia by boat — attracting harsh criticism from the United Nations for the treatment of refugees in offshore detention centers — and praise from immigration hard-liners worldwide.The country of 24 million is still in the midst of a period of rapid internationalization; new census data shows that half the population was born overseas or has at least one parent born overseas. And in recent years, acts of self-harm as protest have become more common.In 2009, a Pakistani refugee died after setting himself alight outside Parliament House.In 2014, two Tamil asylum seekers set themselves ablaze in separate incidents. At least one of the men said he was driven to it after being denied a visa to stay in Australia.At the time, Mr. Dutton, the immigration minister who has just been elevated to a new post encompassing oversight of intelligence and counterterrorism, blamed immigration advocates.He said they were “encouraging some of these people to behave in a certain way, believing that that pressure exerted on the Australian government will see a change in our policy in relation to our border protection measures.”He has said repeatedly that no protest, no matter how severe, would lead Australia to change its refugee policy. This week he noted that the country’s strict approach had successfully kept people from trying to reach Australian shores.Ollie Henderson contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »PHILADELPHIA — A day after vowing to stay in his job despite a reproof from the president, Attorney General Jeff Sessions pressed his immigration agenda on Friday in Philadelphia, a so-called sanctuary city that limits its cooperation with federal immigration authorities.“The residents of Philadelphia have been victimized,” Mr. Sessions told federal prosecutors here, denouncing the city for “giving sanctuary to criminals.”Philadelphia’s police commissioner later rebutted Mr. Sessions, saying the city now had “one of the lowest crime rates since the 1970s.”Philadelphia’s mayor, Jim Kenney, a Democrat, said Friday that crime rates declined the year he reinstated a sanctuary city policy, and he argued that the Trump administration’s posture was counterproductive. “If victims and witnesses of crimes don’t report those crimes to the police because they fear deportation, that allows the real bad guys to stay on the streets,” Mr. Kenney said.Richard Ross Jr., Philadelphia’s police commissioner, also disputed Mr. Sessions’s characterizations of the city.“We don’t harbor anyone — we’re a welcoming city, not a sanctuary city” for criminals, Commissioner Ross said, adding that Philadelphia “can’t afford” to lose federal funding.Despite Mr. Sessions’s speech, the commissioner said he didn’t “personally believe that we belong in the immigration business.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, in some 25 minutes of remarks, Mr. Sessions subtly answered another rebuke the president had made in the interview, this one of Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, who in May appointed a special counsel to lead the government’s Russia investigation.Mr. Trump, a Republican, bemoaned that Mr. Rosenstein was “from Baltimore,” a heavily Democratic city. While Mr. Rosenstein worked there as the United States attorney in Maryland, he has lived in the suburbs of Washington and is from the Philadelphia area.Within moments of taking the lectern Friday, Mr. Sessions indirectly corrected the record. “Rod Rosenstein is from this area — a University of Pennsylvania Wharton business school graduate,” he said, naming the president’s own alma mater. “He’s really a good guy.”“Hopefully we’ll get the rest of them moving fast,” Mr. Sessions said. “I do my best every day,” he added, “to fulfill the goals the president and I share.”See More »Go to Home Page »Before reading the article:What have you heard about illegal immigration to the United States? What are the dangers for immigrants trying to enter the country illegally? Why do you think people take these risks?Finally, tell us more about what you think:The article explains the role drug smugglers are increasingly playing in human smuggling as well:The drug trafficking organizations charge smugglers to cross through their territory. In some cases, the cartels abduct the migrants and hold them for ransom from parents in the United States or family back home.If the money is not paid on time, the migrants, including children, are beaten or even killed, according to Border Patrol agents and Homeland Security Investigations officials who have investigated the cases. Two weeks ago, prosecutors in McAllen, Tex., sentenced the leader of one group to more than 30 years in prison for abducting a group of people who were in the country illegally and were being held at a stash house. The group was held at gunpoint, and their families were told to pay $2,000 to free them. After the families paid, the group was then turned over to other smugglers, who also demanded money for their release.How do you think this situation can be stopped? What do you think the best course of action is for immigration officials to pursue?See More »Go to Home Page »The next potential battle between the Trump administration and business leaders is near, and it’s on immigration.“Dreamers are vital to the future of our companies and our economy. With them, we grow and create jobs,” the leaders wrote. “They are part of why we will continue to have a global competitive advantage.”Among the hundreds of signatories:• Warren E. Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway• Tim Cook, Apple• Jeff Bezos, Amazon• Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook• Sundar Pichai, Google• Laurene Powell Jobs, Emerson Collective• Satya Nadella and Brad Smith, Microsoft• Mary T. Barra, General MotorsMany federal agencies have begun relaxing regulations in the Trump era. But the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is not one of them.The agency, set up under Barack Obama, has continued to crack down on debt collectors, while pushing out a new rule on arbitration and pursuing enforcement actions against payday lenders.“It’s an agency about protecting the little guy, and that is tough to oppose,” said Dean Clancy, a policy analyst tracking the bureau.More From Washington:Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The infractions are mounting:• Unauthorized changes to mortgage repayment terms in bankruptcy• Improper withholding of refunds to car loan customers• Some 528,000 cases where customers were signed up to online bill payment which once carried feesWhile Jared Kushner has plenty of tough problems assigned to him at the White House, his family’s real estate business is weighed down by its own millstone: 666 Fifth Avenue, the office building in Midtown Manhattan that the Kushner Companies bought in 2006 for $1.8 billion.From Asia:• Anbang Insurance Group of ChinaFrom the Middle East:• Harel Insurance of Israel• Bank Leumi of Israel• Bank Hapoalim of Israel• The Steinmetz family, an Israeli family whose fortune lies in diamonds• A Qatari sheikh, Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani, who agreed to invest $500 million if other investors came on board, but none did• Fawaz Alhokair, a billionaire from Saudi ArabiaFrom Europe:• Bernard Arnault of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis VuittonThe Kushner Companies told Bloomberg that 666 Fifth Avenue is now only “one small piece” of its business portfolio. But the article notes that many of the company’s current holdings are also mortgaged, or shared with partners.The transaction would be the largest European leveraged buyout in four years. It also comes after a flurry of deal making in the payments processing industry as companies look to grab a part of digital spending infrastructure:“It’s been very slow. Personally, I thought we would be out in six months.”Go to Home Page »Omar Salinas has Temporary Protected Status, which is granted to U.S. immigrants from countries crippled by disaster or war. The Trump administration has announced that it will end the program.LOS ANGELES — Nearly 200,000 people from El Salvador who have been allowed to live in the United States for more than a decade must leave the country, government officials announced Monday. It is the Trump administration’s latest reversal of years of immigration policies and one of the most consequential to date.Immigrant advocates and the El Salvadoran government had pleaded for the United States to extend the program, as it has several times since 2001. A sense of dread gripped Salvadorans and their employers in California, Texas, Virginia and elsewhere.“We had hope that if we worked hard, paid our taxes and didn’t get in trouble we would be allowed to stay,” said Veronica Lagunas, 39, a Salvadoran who works overnight cleaning offices in Los Angeles, has two children born in the United States and owns a mobile home.The Trump administration has said that hundreds of thousands of people who were granted temporary protection from deportation in 2001 must leave.And despite its name, the administration says, the Temporary Protected Status program, known as T.P.S., had turned into a quasi-permanent benefit for hundreds of thousands of people.The Department of Homeland Security said that because damaged roads, schools, hospitals, homes and water systems had been reconstructed since the earthquakes, the Salvadorans no longer belonged in the program.“Based on careful consideration of available information,” the department said in a statement, “the secretary determined that the original conditions caused by the 2001 earthquakes no longer exist. Thus, under the applicable statute, the current T.P.S. designation must be terminated.”The ending of protection for Salvadorans, Haitians and Nicaraguans leaves fewer than 100,000 people in the program, which was signed into law by President George Bush in 1990.It provides temporary lawful status and work authorization to people already in the United States, whether they entered legally or not, from countries affected by armed conflict, natural disaster or other strife. The homeland security secretary decides when a country merits the designation and can renew it for six, 12 or 18 months.There is no limit to the number of extensions a country can receive. Countries that have received and then lost the designation in the past include Bosnia and Herzegovina, which endured a civil war in the 1990s, and Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia during the Ebola crisis. El Salvador was one of the first countries in the program because of its civil war; that designation expired in 1994.The administration is giving Salvadorans in the program until September 2019 to get their affairs in order. After that, they no longer will have permission to stay in the country, forcing them into a wrenching decision.Ms. Lagunas said that she would remain in the United States illegally, risking arrest and deportation. But she would lose her job of 12 years without the work permit that comes with the protection. Her family would lose medical insurance and other benefits.“There is nothing to go back to in El Salvador,” she said, speaking in Spanish. “The infrastructure may be better now, but the country is in no condition to receive us.”With his protected status, Carlos Jiron, another Salvadoran, started a small contracting business and won bids for big jobs, including to paint federal buildings in the Washington area.“We have built a life here,” said Mr. Jiron, 41, who lives with his wife and two American-born children in a four-bedroom house they bought in Springfield, Va.He will have to decide whether to take his children to El Salvador, where he says they would not maximize their potential and would face safety threats; leave them with guardians in the United States; or remain in the country at the risk of arrest and deportation as one of the millions of undocumented immigrants.His 14-year-old daughter, Tania, a fan of Disney movies and hip-hop music, said she could not fathom starting over in El Salvador. “This is where I was born and am supposed to be raised,” she said.In 2016, the final time, the government cited several factors, including drought, poverty and widespread gang violence in El Salvador, as reasons to keep the protections in place.But officials in the Trump administration say the only criteria the government should consider is whether the original reason for the designation — in this case, damage from the earthquakes — still exists.Some lawmakers have introduced legislation to enable people with temporary protection to remain in the United States permanently. At the same time, instability in Venezuela has prompted some members of Congress from Florida to call for protected status for Venezuelans.The government of El Salvador had asked the Trump administration to renew the designation for its citizens in the United States, citing drought and other factors. Money sent home from Salvadorans abroad is a lifeline for many in the country, where four out of 10 households subsist below the poverty line, according to the World Bank. In 2016, the $4.6 billion remitted from abroad, mostly from the United States, accounted for 17 percent of the country’s economy.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.El Salvador’s president, Salvador Sánchez Cerén, spoke by phone with Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Friday to make one last plea. After Ms. Nielsen’s decision was announced on Monday, Mr. Sánchez posted on Twitter, calling it an 18-month “extension” of T.P.S. The post prompted a flurry of angry replies accusing him of trying to spin the bad news.Flor Mejia, who works in a day care center on the outskirts of San Salvador, said her family gets by with the help of money sent regularly by her sister and brother-in-law, who recently bought a home and have two children born in the United States. Her parents live in Chalatenango, a rural province in the northern part of the country, and are subsistence farmers, growing corn and beans for the family’s food supply.“It’s going to be very difficult for my parents, not having this income anymore,” Ms. Mejia said.Donald M. Kerwin Jr., the center’s executive director, called rescinding protection for Salvadorans a “baffling ideological decision that is extraordinarily destructive on all ends. They are deeply vested and embedded in the U.S.”“During hurricane recovery, I especially need those men,” Mr. Marek said. “If they lose their status, I have to terminate them.”“We need to put the ‘T’ back into T.P.S.,” he said. “It has to be temporary. This has gone on far too long.”Ron Nixon contributed reporting from Washington, Caitlin Dickerson from New York and Gene Palumbo from San Salvador.See More »Go to Home Page »An undocumented immigrant from Mexico who had been deported 20 times and had been arrested for various offenses was sentenced to 35 years in prison on Friday after pleading guilty to brutally assaulting two women in Oregon on the same day in July.The case was one of several that drew the attention of the Trump administration as it has tried to crack down on and deport undocumented immigrants. Federal officials have held up immigrants like the man involved, Sergio Jose Martinez, as examples of undocumented people who must be expelled from the country, but who have instead been allowed to roam free thanks to so-called sanctuary cities.Although both cases became politicized, the facts of Mr. Martinez’s case — and its outcome — were starkly different. On July 24, about two weeks after Mr. Martinez, 31, was released from jail, prosecutors say, he entered the bedroom of a 65-year-old woman, forced her to perform oral sex, and assaulted her before stealing her car. Hours later, he assaulted a middle-aged woman in a parking garage.Amity Girt, the deputy district attorney who handled the case for the Multnomah County District Attorney’s Office, said that Mr. Martinez pleaded guilty on Friday to 10 charges, including sodomy, assault and robbery. His 35-year sentence does not include the possibility of an early release.“There were two victims in this case who either directly or through family members presented very gut-wrenching-to-hear impact statements in court today,” she said in a telephone interview late Friday.Mr. Martinez’s lawyer, Jonathan Sarre, said his client had chosen to take the plea deal against his advice. Mr. Sarre said he thought it might have been possible to negotiate for closer to 20 years of prison time.Still, in a telephone interview, Mr. Sarre said he had a “problem with using an individual person to advocate for strict immigration laws.”After Mr. Garcia Zarate’s acquittal on Thursday, “Mr. Martinez becomes the immigration boogeyman that the administration all wants us to fear,” Mr. Sarre said. “He’s the poster boy for the border wall. It’s a great way to scare people.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Martinez has a long list of what his lawyer said were relatively minor crimes like low-level drug offenses, disorderly conduct and other petty misdemeanors. The most serious crime Mr. Sarre said he was aware his client had committed before the July assaults was a burglary in California for which he was deported.Mr. Martinez had been in jail in Multnomah County serving time for a drug offense when he finished his time and was released last summer, Mr. Sarre said. About two weeks later, Mr. Martinez assaulted the two women.Attorney General Jeff Sessions has spoken publicly about the case and several others like it, arguing that releasing potentially deportable immigrants when their jail terms expire does “far broader damage to the country than many understand.”The sheriff’s office did not respond to an email seeking comment on Friday night. A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement told The Associated Press it would seek to have Mr. Martinez transferred to its custody when he completes his sentence so that the authorities can deport him.He would be 66 at that time.“I’ve done everything from traffic tickets to murder,” said Mr. Sarre, who also represented Mr. Martinez for the offenses that landed him in jail in the weeks before the July assaults. “I don’t think anyone could have expected this to turn out the way it did or for this to happen.”He reiterated something he said a colleague had told him — that Mr. Martinez had “ruined it for every other hardworking person who doesn’t have papers.”“There’s quite a few of them,” he added.Go to Home Page »Immigration arrests shot up 38 percent in the first three months of the Trump administration compared with the same period last year, according to figures released Wednesday, one of the first clear indications that the president’s hard-line policies are being carried out on a grand scale.While President Trump’s more attention-grabbing ideas have been blocked or stalled, like building a border wall and temporarily stopping travel from some Muslim-majority countries, the statistics released by federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement suggested that the more street-level aspects of his immigration agenda have achieved significant results, and quickly.From Jan. 22 to April 29, ICE officers arrested 41,318 people, at a rate of more than 400 people per day, compared with 30,028 over roughly the same period in 2016, the data showed.“These statistics reflect President Trump’s commitment to enforce our immigration laws fairly and across the board,” said Thomas Homan, the acting director of ICE, on a phone call with reporters.The rapid increase in arrests was primarily the result of one of Mr. Trump’s first significant immigration moves, rescinding rules laid down by former President Barack Obama that prioritized the arrest of the most serious criminals and largely left other undocumented immigrants alone. More than half of the increase in arrests were of immigrants who had committed no crime other than being in the country without permission.Mr. Obama’s policy was rooted in both humanitarian and budgetary reasons, but to Mr. Trump and his supporters, and many ICE agents, it represented a failure to enforce the law and a de facto amnesty for millions of people in the United States illegally.Supporters of Mr. Trump’s immigration policies welcomed the news. “I feel that’s one step in the right direction, I definitely feel that way,” said J. D. Ma, a lawyer in Clarksville, Md., who voted for Hillary Clinton but agreed with the president on immigration. “The reality is that if you don’t do that, that’s going to encourage wave after wave and disrupt the order of the society.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“What it tells me is that the department is willing to put enforcement numbers ahead of any kind of strategy that would actually try to keep us all safer going forward,” said Omar Jadwat, the director of the Immigrants’ Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union.Aware of the criticism, the federal authorities have frequently noted that a majority of those arrested — 75 percent in Mr. Trump’s first three months — were still people with criminal records.Protesters outside a United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement office on May 1 in San Francisco.Although agents are no longer limited in whom they can pick up, Mr. Homan said that more than 2,700 of those arrested had been convicted of serious crimes like assault, rape or murder.“If you look at the numbers, the men and women of ICE are still prioritizing these arrests in a way that makes sense,” he said.Mr. Trump’s policies also appear to have slowed the flow of people crossing the southern border illegally, which has reached its lowest number in years, as migrants are choosing to seek refuge in other countries or endure poor conditions at home.Unless they have already been ordered deported by a judge, immigrants who are arrested can plead their case in immigration courts, which have been snarled by a backlog that exceeds half a million cases. Over all, Mr. Homan said that deportations were down 12 percent from the previous year, partly because of a steep decline in illegal border crossings.The increase in arrests under President Trump is less stark compared with 2011, when President Obama’s immigration agency apprehended 351,029 people, or about 29,000 a month. But arrests and deportations decreased in the years that followed as the Obama administration narrowed its focus to serious criminals.But at the current rate of arrests, ICE may surpass the highest annual numbers it reached under Mr. Obama in Mr. Trump’s very first year.“That’s great news!” said Scott Hayes, a landscaper from Beverly, Mass. Mr. Hayes said he lost two more accounts this year because he was undercut on price, one of them, he believes, to illegal immigrants.He said the changes under Mr. Trump were being felt in his area. Mr. Hayes said he was going out to mow a lawn last week and a friend from another landscaping company came running up to him. The friend said the owner of that company was furious with Mr. Trump.“I said, over what?” Mr. Hayes said. “He said he can’t find any help! Trump is kicking them all out!”Mr. Hayes added: “That’s why I was so passionate for Trump,” he said. “I wanted to expose these guys for who they are, if they are hiring illegal immigrants.”Sabrina Tavernise contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Senate Democrats are questioning the Trump administration’s latest salvo in its push for strict immigration enforcement: possible criminal charges for local politicians in so-called sanctuary cities.She said the request had come from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Senators Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein, both Democrats of California and members of the committee, asked the Justice Department on Wednesday why it was looking into the matter.Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris, Democrats of California, are asking about a request from immigration officials that the Justice Department look into possible criminal charges for elected officials in so-called sanctuary cities.“We ask for the legal and factual bases for this request, and information about the consideration of this request,” they wrote in a letter to both Attorney General Jeff Sessions and to Ms. Nielsen.It was not clear how seriously the Justice Department was considering the question or whether it had begun investigating any politicians. A spokesman said only that the Justice Department was working with ICE to explore all options for holding sanctuary cities accountable.The possibility of criminal charges prompted concern among civil rights attorneys who viewed it as a step toward the politicization of law enforcement.“In free democracies, you can’t jail people for opposing the president’s policies, policies that courts have found to be lawful,” said Vanita Gupta, the chief executive of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the former head of the civil rights division of the Justice Department.Last year, the Trump administration also threatened to withhold federal funding to sanctuary cities, including $28 million in law enforcement grants to state and local jurisdictions in California. In response, both the state and the city of San Francisco sued the administration. California Attorney General Xavier Becerra called the threat to withhold money “bullying.”More recently, the state Legislature passed the California Values Act, which restricts cooperation with federal immigration agents. The law took effect on Jan. 1, drawing the ire of Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“In every area, this administration has violated the norms of civil discourse and civil behavior,” said Darrell Steinberg, the mayor of Sacramento and an outspoken opponent of the Trump administration’s immigration policies. “There is a difference between the give and take of partisan politics and what we are witnessing today.”The city of Sacramento has filed briefs supporting lawsuits against the administration and has allocated more money to immigration services.Ms. Harris and Ms. Feinstein asked Mr. Sessions to provide communications between the Department of Homeland Security or the White House asking the Justice Department to look into criminal charges for elected officials in sanctuary cities.The senators said that they did not know of other cases “where duly elected state officials have been placed under threat of arrest and federal prosecution” for acting on the laws that their state legislatures have passed. They also asked that the Justice Department provide the legal basis it would use to prosecute politicians in sanctuary cities.See More »Go to Home Page »For Marcela Alcaide Eligio, A.P. Biology class would have to wait. First, she had some paperwork to do.“I had to take my chance,” said Ms. Alcaide, whose permit for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, expires in May. “It’s always uncertain, so you have to do it as soon as possible.”“I wanted to take this opportunity while the window lasts,” said Mario Hernandez, 29, who was whisked across the Mexico-United States border when he was a 1-year-old and raised in Los Angeles.Hours later, his sense of urgency seemed prescient. The Department of Justice filed a notice of appeal on Tuesday afternoon in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, saying it intended to ask the Supreme Court later in the week to review the Federal District Court’s ruling, which had enjoined the federal government from ending the DACA program, as it had planned. .With their fates split in the courts, in the halls of Congress, and, seemingly, the White House, DACA recipients across the country scrambled to do what was in their power.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In New York, the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs was partnering with CUNY Citizenship Now! to offer two free clinics on Thursday and next Tuesday, while Make the Road New York, another immigrant advocacy group in the city, had filled all its slots for three Saturday events.In Phoenix, a community organizing and advocacy group, Puente Arizona, had already helped prepare six applications on Monday, even though it was a federal holiday. On Tuesday the applicants only needed to put them in the mail — with a tracking number to avoid any problems with the United States Postal Service that plagued the renewal program in the fall, when more than 1,900 applicants were rejected for being late because of mail delays.In some cities, though, the DACA push in response to immigration authorities reopening renewal applications was slower than others. Geoffrey Hoffman, the director of the immigration clinic at the University of Houston Law Center, said on Tuesday that the clinic had received only a handful of inquiries from DACA recipients.“It’s been very sparse,” Mr. Hoffman said on Tuesday. “I would say there’s still a fair amount of uncertainty with regard to whether these applications will be accepted,” he added.But another legal services group in Houston said it had received 50 to 100 emails, calls and walk-in consultations since the federal judge’s injunction last week.On Sept. 5, when the Trump administration announced that it was phasing out the DACA program, which grants the deportation protection and work permits to young people who were brought to the United States illegally by their parents as children, it allowed only those recipients whose benefits expired between Sept. 5, 2017 and March 5, 2018 to renew for a final two years.According to the immigration agency, 132,000 out of the 154,000 people eligible to renew applied in the fall. But this time, anyone whose permit had expired since Sept. 5, 2016 or was canceled at any time could apply.The immigration agency said that anyone whose permit expired in the next 120 to 150 days could reapply. It historically has accepted people as many as six months out.In California, Luis Cruz’s permit expires in June, so after the administration canceled the DACA program in September, he stopped saving money from his job at a communications firm for the $495 application fee. That changed with last week’s court ruling.The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights, known as Chirla, said it would cover the cost, to Mr. Cruz’s gratitude. “It’s done, sealed in an envelope and about to be express-mailed,” he said.The lawyer for Ms. Alcaide in New York, Hasan Shafiqullah, the director of the immigration unit at the Legal Aid Society, said he sent an email to 950 former DACA clients on Monday, explaining the renewal process. He got only 10 responses.By the end of Tuesday, he had sent out four applications via FedEx, paid for by Legal Aid in an effort to avoid the earlier mail problems.Mr. Shafiqullah said that perhaps some of the unit’s clients did not need legal assistance with their applications because they have renewed twice already and were familiar with the process. For Ms. Alcaide, who came from Mexico when she was 2 years old, it was her first renewal. Her mother gave her the application fee from her savings from cleaning houses.“It’s really exciting because I don’t have to fear anything else for two more years,” Ms. Alcaide said.Now, she added that she will be able to apply for colleges in New York with more assurance that she can earn money to pay tuition.But Mr. Shafiqullah had to caution her, as he has been doing for his other clients. The afternoon decision from the Department of Justice underscored why.“The fact that this has started isn’t a guarantee that it will continue,” he told her across the desk, “but we’re hoping that those who manage to apply in time, even if there is an injunction, if you get your foot in the door, then they will honor that.”Liz Robbins reported from New York; Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles. Manny Fernandez contributed reporting from Houston, Rebekah Zemansky from Phoenix.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — “Chain migration,” or family-based immigration, has emerged as a key point of negotiations — and the subject of heated, inaccurate exchanges — as Congress tries to reach a deal on giving legal status to undocumented migrants who arrived in the United States as children, known as Dreamers.President Trump has argued that chain migration has benefited terrorists, while Republican hard-liners say it could reward those who have broken immigration laws. Some Democrats have inaccurately characterized attempts to limit what they call “family reunification.”Here’s an assessment.Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, an advocacy group that favors more limits on immigration, said he was unsure what Mr. Trump was referring to in Mr. Saipov’s case. But “it’s obviously not the relatives” sponsored by the attacker, Mr. Krikorian said, given the waiting period and limits to family-based immigration.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Yu said he believed chain migration also included the American-born children of immigrants, whom he included in his 4.2 immigration multiplier average. It should be noted, however, that people who are born in the United States are generally given American citizenship. By confining so-called chain migration to foreign relatives, Mr. Yu’s research shows that one immigrant could result in the sponsorship of an average of 2.1 additional people.“You can’t just multiply by 800,000. That’s crazy,” Ms. Tienda said, adding the average number of relatives sponsored by Dreamers would “absolutely be much lower” than 3.45.To apply for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, immigrants had to be younger than 31 on June 15, 2012, and must have proof of having arrived in the United States before 16. So their children are likelier to be American citizens, and their spouses also legal residents, citizens or Dreamers themselves.If Dreamers are given a pathway to citizenship through legislation, their parents could indeed eventually obtain legal status. But those who entered the United States illegally are required to leave the country and wait three or 10 years before applying for an immigration visa. That’s “a significant barrier most would be unlikely to contemplate,” according to the Migration Policy Institute.Republicans are not suggesting the elimination of family-based immigration, but rather limiting it to a so-called nuclear family — that is, a set of parents and their children.See More »Go to Home Page »After sending more than 13,000 Twitter messages in less than three years, Jon Feere, an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration, suddenly went silent after Inauguration Day.Mr. Feere’s newfound reticence reflected not a change of heart but a new employer. He now works for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency tasked with finding and deporting people living in the United States illegally.His last Twitter post, on Jan. 20, read simply: “It’s time to make immigration policy great again.”It's time to make immigration policy great again.For years, a network of immigration hard-liners in Washington was known chiefly for fending off proposals to legalize the status of more people. But with the election of a like-minded president, these groups have moved unexpectedly from defense to offense, with some of their leaders now in positions to carry out their agenda on a national scale.Julie Kirchner, who served for a decade as executive director of the organization, also known as FAIR, is now working as an adviser to the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection. Kellyanne Conway, before she was known for campaign work and spirited defenses of Mr. Trump on cable television, worked regularly as a pollster for FAIR.“You would have to go to the 1920s and 1930s to find a comparable period in which you could point to people within the executive agencies and the White House who favored significant restrictions,” Mr. Tichenor said.Their influence is already being felt. Mr. Trump is known for his sound-bite-ready pledges to deport millions of people here illegally and to build a border wall, but some of the administration’s more technical yet critical changes to immigration procedures came directly from officials with long ties to the hard-line groups.These include expanding cooperation between immigration agents and local law enforcement officials; cracking down on “sanctuary cities”; making it more difficult for migrants to successfully claim asylum; allowing the Border Patrol access to all federal lands; and curtailing the practice of “catch and release,” in which undocumented immigrants are released from detention while their cases plod through the courts.“Trump has put together the people who are taking this thing down to the operating-instruction level,” Mr. Stein said.Even those who have labored for decades to scale back immigration did not expect such a dramatic change. “This is inconceivable a year ago,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. “Frankly, it’s almost inconceivable six months ago.”When Mr. Feere asked him for a leave of absence to work on the Trump campaign, Mr. Krikorian said he granted it without necessarily expecting it to lead anywhere. “Honestly, I didn’t think that would pan out,” he said, but recalled telling Mr. Feere, “Look, you know we’ve always got a job for you if it doesn’t work out.”Dr. Tanton came under sharp criticism for corresponding with white nationalists and for couching the fight to reduce immigration as a racial and demographic struggle. “For European-American society and culture to persist requires a European-American majority, and a clear one at that,” Dr. Tanton once wrote to a friend, elsewhere expressing his fear of a “Latin onslaught.”The Southern Poverty Law Center has long been especially critical of FAIR, which had in the past received money from the Pioneer Fund, a foundation that has financed research on the relationship between race and intelligence. Mr. Stein of FAIR rejected the attacks as politically motivated, prompted by the group’s success in helping defeat an immigration overhaul in Congress.This month, FAIR filed a complaint with the Internal Revenue Service accusing the Southern Poverty Law Center of committing “flagrant and intentional” violations of its tax-exempt status by criticizing Republican candidates during the 2016 presidential race.Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center, said it never crossed the line into improper political activity. “I think we have an obligation to expose hate not just in the dark corners of our society but also in the mainstream,” Mr. Cohen said. “We’ve gotten under FAIR’s skin many times, and now they feel like they have allies in the administration and they’re going for it.”Although immigration advocates call them xenophobic, people at all three groups say they do not like to be labeled anti-immigrant; the Center for Immigration Studies uses the motto “low immigration, pro-immigrant” on its website. They say they just expect to see the nation’s immigration laws enforced and that those living here illegally are caught and deported.They also say they want legal immigration brought down to what they view as more sustainable levels, in particular to help buoy the wages of lower-income Americans who compete with unskilled migrants on the bottom rungs of the work force.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The average American basically likes the idea of immigration, maybe loves the concept — it’s played an important historic role in our history — but would be perfectly fine if we didn’t have another immigrant for 50 years,” Mr. Stein said.FAIR lobbies members of Congress and their staff from its offices on Massachusetts Avenue, a short walk from Capitol Hill, while maintaining strong contacts with talk-radio hosts. There is even a radio studio in the group’s office.With roughly two dozen staff members and fellows, the Center for Immigration Studies provides research, filling the traditional think-tank role.“We feel like we are going to continue to need to bring grass-roots influence on this administration because there’s a lot of competing interests,” said Mr. Beck of NumbersUSA.“The biggest enemy we face right now is complacency,” Mr. Stein of FAIR said, “because Trump’s people have our ideas.”See More »Go to Home Page »BRUSSELS — Rather than a sudden lurch to the right, the victory of conservative and far-right parties in Austria’s elections Sunday was another reflection of the new normal in Europe, where anti-immigration populism and nationalism are challenging the European Union’s commitment to open borders for trade and immigration.Nearly 58 percent of Austrians who voted cast ballots for center-right or far-right parties, with the far-right Freedom Party running neck-and-neck for second place with the establishment center-left. But the theme of the election was identity — anti-immigration and anti-Islamization — with the charismatic winner, Sebastian Kurz, just 31, tellingly absorbing much of the far-right’s agenda to transform his once-mainstream conservative People’s Party.Mr. Kurz must now decide whether to create a coalition with the far-right Freedom Party or to renew a coalition with the center-left Social Democrats, which would ease European concerns to some degree about another populist party in government. But the message is clear: populism is vibrant in democratic Europe, and especially so in its eastern precincts.Mr. Krastev sees the divisions over migration most sharply between the countries of Western Europe like Germany and those of the east, like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which view “the very cosmopolitan values on which the European Union is based as a threat.” The populist revolt is not simply against mainstream parties, he argues, but against meritocratic elites who have arguably lost touch with their roots.In Austria, which likes to think of itself as the bridge between the western and eastern countries of Europe, Mr. Kurz faces a serious choice: try to isolate a popular populist party, as in Sweden, or bring it into government and try to tame it, as in Norway. But with nationalist, populist parties already a part of several European governments, and in power in Hungary and Poland, the European Union has little appetite for imposing sanctions or other penalties.As successful as Mr. Kurz was in reviving his own party — even changing its colors from black to turquoise — he failed to stem the appeal of the Freedom Party, which won roughly the same percentage of votes as it did in its previous heyday in 1999, under Jörg Haider, when its roots in provincial nationalism and neo-Nazism were more obvious.Back then, the conservative Wolfgang Schüssel broke a taboo by bringing the Freedom Party into government, and Europeans reacted with horror. Without waiting for the new government to do anything, European governments imposed diplomatic sanctions on Austria.“It was simply done on the basis of phone calls from one prime minister to another,” Mr. Lehne said. “And it was completely counterproductive and led to counteraction among Austrians, who felt it unjustified.” The effort was abandoned several months later.Austria has usually voted for center-right and right-wing parties, and it was late to examine its history under the Nazis. It preferred to see itself as the “first victim” of the Austrian-born Hitler, instead of a willing collaborator with the Third Reich and its racist, anti-Semitic policies.Right-wing parties have been achieving electoral success in a growing number of nations.For the European Union, the potential challenge from Austria is similar to that from Poland and Hungary, which welcomed the Kurz victory; a coalition between Mr. Kurz and the Freedom Party would create a government more like that of those two countries and less like ones in Germany or France. Still, Mr. Kurz is strongly pro-European, and the Freedom Party has largely dropped its euroskepticism after losing last year’s presidential election, when voters made clear “they didn’t want it,” Mr. Lehne said.Mr. Kurz has refused to say what coalition he prefers, but given that Austria will take over the European Union presidency in the last half of next year, he is expected to remain “pretty mainstream,” Mr. Lehne said. “Expect a restrictive attitude to migration,” with limits to social benefits to E.U. workers in Austria,” he said, adding: “But that is mainstream now.”But the imposition of sanctions under the Lisbon Treaty would require clear violations of democratic values and constitutional rules. It is a high threshold, Mr. Zuleeg said, as evident with Poland and Hungary, where numerous challenges have gone unpenalized.“This would be only in case of clear infringements and would take time after the government has been in place and has done something obviously against E.U. principles,” he said.Yet, the so-called nuclear option — suspending a member state’s voting rights — has never been used, and there is little prospect it will be, given the lingering unpopularity of the European Union in many parts of the 28-nation bloc.“You can ask if the Austrian center-right has already embraced many Freedom Party policies that do not conform to European principles,” she said. “What is missing is informal politics that can contain these kinds of situations, by putting pressure on leaders to stay within the arena of democratic politics.”Go to Home Page »Liany and Maria Villacis grew up in a family that did everything together. Each summer, even when money was tight, their parents made sure to take a week’s vacation, no matter how modest. Last summer, when Liany, 22, was in a finance training program in Chicago, her parents and twin sister took their family vacation in the Windy City.Their closeness was a result of circumstance as much as blood: The twins were born in Pasto, Colombia, where their mother, Liany Guerrero, hailed from a politically active family. But when they started receiving death threats from rebel groups — along with unsettling snapshots of the girls at play — they sought political asylum in 2001 in New York with their father, Juan Villacis, whose mother lived in the Woodhaven section of Queens.They paid their taxes and stayed out of trouble. The twins prospered and did well in school and college. And every year, when the parents went to see the authorities at Immigration and Customs Enforcement to renew their stay of removal, they went as a family.After this year’s meeting, they came home one short.On Nov. 15, Juan was detained and sent to the Bergen County Jail in New Jersey to await deportation to his native Ecuador in the coming weeks. His wife was allowed to go home, but under supervision and with orders to return this week to prove she has purchased a one-way ticket back to Colombia for mid-January. Their lawyer, Jillian Hopman, was stunned by what she saw as a heartless bureaucracy going after low-hanging fruit rather than the “bad hombres” of legend.“For a family that does everything together, this is heartbreaking,” Ms. Hopman said. “Juan’s mother’s health has seriously deteriorated, and he is the one who cares for her. His wife has all kinds of medical problems, including complex cysts in her breasts. ICE did not care about any of this. Juan could have won the Nobel Prize and taken a bullet for Mike Pence. All he has become is a statistic.”Adding to the sting, immigration officers refused to let the twins or his wife give him a final hug goodbye, Ms. Hopman said.“They told us they no longer provide that courtesy,” she said, “because they don’t like emotional scenes.”Rachael Yong Yow, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, did not respond to questions submitted last week by email.Maria said her family arrived with valid visas in 2001 and immediately sought political asylum. However, she said, their lawyer at the time stressed the family’s social class — rather than political affiliation — as the reason they were targeted by rebels. Although their application was denied, they obtained stays of removal every year. Ms. Hopman took their case in 2010.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The twins did not expect things to go awry this year: Their father’s mother, a United States citizen who is confined to bed and in poor health, has applied for him to become a legal resident, but there is nearly a five-year backlog of cases. Their mother’s health makes the situation critical, too, they thought.Instead, their lawyer emerged with bad news.“My mom went completely pale and held onto her knees,” said Liany, who with her sister has protection for now under DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. “She was just staring at the floor, saying there had to be a mistake.”Friends of the family agree. Alberto Roig, a retired Manhattan prosecutor who also was assistant counsel to former Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly of the New York Police Department, was dumbstruck by the prospect that the family he has known for years would be broken up.“They’re not some schmoes,” he said. “The girls are incredible because the parents are incredible. They are contributing to our society. They follow the law. They’re legit. And what do we do, kick them out and slam the door? This is a tremendous injustice.”Now is the time of year when Juan would have hauled out the Christmas decorations and strung up the lights around the porch of the family’s Dutch Colonial-style home just off the elevated train on Jamaica Avenue in Queens. Instead, it is dark. Inside, his electric drum kit and saxophone rest against a wall, silent. Just the sight of them moved his wife to tears the day she returned home without him.“Our family life was broken abruptly,” she said. “It’s like half of my heart was cut out. We always made the effort to keep our family united. We did everything to educate our daughters. Juan is his mother’s only hope. We worked hard and paid taxes. What did we do wrong to deserve this?”She has prided herself on never missing appointments and doing whatever the authorities asked. One request she has yet to fulfill is buying her ticket to Colombia.“I know I have to get it,” she said. “But I have the hope that someone will notice our case and say no, this can’t happen. Hope is the last thing you lose.”See More »Go to Home Page »In a two-paragraph statement, the White House said that Mr. Arpaio gave “years of admirable service to our nation” and called him a “worthy candidate for a presidential pardon.”Mr. Trump called Mr. Arpaio “an American patriot” in a tweet later Friday. “He kept Arizona safe!” the president said.I am pleased to inform you that I have just granted a full Pardon to 85 year old American patriot Sheriff Joe Arpaio. He kept Arizona safe!In his own tweets, Mr. Arpaio thanked Mr. Trump and called his conviction “a political witch hunt by holdovers in the Obama justice department.” He also pointed his supporters to a website that was accepting donations to help him pay off his legal fees.I also thank my loyal supporters, who stood shoulder to shoulder w/ me in this fight, and throughout my career. For those who are asking . .“I’ll make a prediction: I think he’s going to be just fine,” Mr. Trump said.Mr. Arpaio had touted himself as “America’s toughest sheriff,” making inmates wear pink underwear and serving jail food that at least some prisoners called inedible. He was also at the forefront of the so-called birther movement that aimed to investigate President Barack Obama’s birth certificate.The criminal conviction grew out of a lawsuit filed a decade ago charging that the sheriff’s office regularly violated the rights of Latinos, stopping people based on racial profiling, detaining them based solely on the suspicion that they were in the country illegally and turning them over to the immigration authorities.A federal district judge hearing the case ordered Mr. Arpaio in 2011 to stop detaining people based solely on suspicion of their immigration status, when there was no evidence that a state law had been broken. But the sheriff insisted that his tactics were legal and that he would continue employing them.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He was convicted last month of criminal contempt of court for defying the order, a misdemeanor punishable by up to six months in jail.“The only reason to do these right now is to use the cover of Hurricane Harvey to avoid scrutiny,” Mr. Schumer said in a series of tweets late Friday. “So sad, so weak.”Mr. Trump’s supporters hailed the pardon as a sign the president was keeping his word on his campaign pledge to crack down on illegal immigration.Kelli Ward, a former Arizona state senator who is challenging Senator Jeff Flake in a Republican primary for his seat in 2018, called Mr. Arpaio “a patriot who did the job the Feds refused to do.” Mr. Trump has endorsed Ms. Ward’s candidacy.Meanwhile, Senator John McCain, also an Arizona Republican, denounced the pardon of Mr. Arpaio.“No one is above the law,” he said, “and the individuals entrusted with the privilege of being sworn law officers should always seek to be beyond reproach in their commitment to fairly enforcing the laws they swore to uphold.”The discussion about pardoning Mr. Arpaio had begun weeks ago, while Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, was still in the administration, according to two people briefed on the matter.But the decision to make the announcement during a national news blackout related to the impending hurricane was not accidental. Some in the Trump administration had cautioned against it as too controversial, and had urged waiting, if it were going to be done.Mr. Bannon had favored the move, as had Mr. Trump’s policy adviser, Stephen Miller, a former adviser to Jeff Sessions, the attorney general and a former senator for whom Mr. Miller served as press secretary.Mr. Sessions and Mr. Miller share a hard-line view on curtailing immigration levels, and Mr. Arpaio had become a national avatar for Mr. Trump, who had a good relationship with the sheriff during the 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Trump had once told Mr. Arpaio that he would try to help him if he could down the road.But that was before Mr. Trump was closing in on Hillary Clinton in the presidential race. Still, he was fond of Mr. Arpaio, and was sold on the pardon as a way of pleasing his political base. Additionally, Mr. Miller fought hard for the pardon, according to a senior administration official.Julie Hirschfeld Davis reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »But, he insists, the time has come to remove the migrants who blight his handsome and orderly town, where they sleep in abandoned garages or loiter on the esplanade around Lake Como, better known as a luxury destination for George Clooney than as a magnet for despair.“See there?” he asked, pointing to an African man sitting alone on a piazza’s steps the other day as Mr. Landriscina strolled toward the cathedral for a mayoral endorsement by some of Italy’s leading right-wing politicians. “That’s the first guy. It’s only the beginning.”Italians vote on Sunday in the final round of municipal elections seen as a bellwether before national elections, and immigration is the issue that may determine races from this northern city on the Swiss border to the southern coast of Sicily.Italy has registered more than 70,000 migrants this year, 27 percent more than it did by this time in 2016, when a record 181,000 migrants arrived.Shoving has broken out in Parliament over the center-left government’s proposal to extend citizenship to the children of migrants born on Italian soil.All over, parties and politicians are shifting to a tougher stance.Champions of a more welcoming approach to immigrants have not fared well.In Lampedusa, the Sicilian island that became the emblem of Italy’s immigration issue after years of inundation by desperate migrants, the Democratic Party mayor had become an international symbol of Italy’s open arms. She failed even to make it to Sunday’s runoff.Here in Como, Sunday’s election could well be determined by the debate over what to do with the hundreds of African migrants hoping to go north to Switzerland or Northern Europe for jobs.As seaplanes glided to dock and women in sun hats sipped aperitifs, scores of African migrants gathered, looking at the verdant mountains standing guard between the placid lake and Switzerland.“I can’t go anywhere,” said Fofana Abdoulaye, a 31-year-old migrant from the Ivory Coast, as he stood in the shadow of the city’s landmark Volta Temple.While he and other migrants spoke of their appreciation of Italy’s humanitarian efforts to save them from the Mediterranean Sea, they also expressed exhaustion with the country’s intricate web of permits and papers and European agreements that required them to stay in the country that first documented them.But locals, too, were exasperated.“It’s a horrible calling card for the city,” Enrica Tattamanti, 65, said as she watched her granddaughter, Benedetta, play next to Lake Como.She worried that funds redirected to migrants deprived the town’s handicapped citizens of services and complained that any protest prompted accusations of racism. “I hope the center right wins,” she said.Its candidate, Mr. Landriscina, argues for closing migrant reception centers and removing the migrants who he argued did not want to be here to begin with, to relieve mounting tension between Como’s locals and immigrants who he said made no effort to integrate.“It’s a problem where the conflict — a little bit ethnic, a little bit religious — risks creating tension,” said Mr. Landriscina, who just finished a book about Rudolph W. Giuliani’s time as mayor of New York.If elected, he said, he would go to Rome, which has jurisdiction over such issues, and appeal for a change.Mr. Landriscina arrived for the endorsement event at the Broletto, a medieval and elegantly arched building next to the cathedral, to the cheers of familiar right-wing politicians including Giorgia Meloni, the leader of the law-and-order Brothers of Italy party.At the event, Ms. Meloni, a member of Parliament, wasted no time bringing up her party’s opposition to the government’s proposal to extend citizenship to children born in Italy.“We believe Italian citizenship cannot be a concession or automatic,” she said to applause. “They must earn it, ask it, and citizenship should be celebrated.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview after the event, Ms. Meloni mocked the Five Star Movement for its belated hard line on immigration, saying it only followed opinion polls and believed in nothing.This was one of the rare areas where she and the leader of the Democratic Party, former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who considers Italian citizenship a civil right to those born here, agreed.Of the Five Star Movement’s leader, Beppe Grillo, Mr. Renzi wrote on Facebook: “Grillo got a big slap in the face in the local elections. So what do they invent? A nice attack on immigrants.”But Ms. Meloni had no problem with attacking the government’s welcoming approach to immigrants. “It devastates the culture, devastates tourism, devastates security, devastates everything,” she said. “Nothing good comes of it. Not even for the immigrants.”Advocates in Como worry that the adoption of such a hard line in City Hall would only create resentment.“It’s a losing strategy,” said the Rev. Giusto Della Valle, a priest who since 2011 has run a center on the outskirts of town where more than 50 migrants sleep at night.In the dining room where immigrants prepare and eat their dinners, he proudly pointed out the soccer trophy the refugees he hosts won in a tournament for National Refugee Day this month.He then gave a tour of the center, showing the room where a woman and her two small children had slept the previous night and in which 24 teenagers had slept until May.A learning center with outdated computers, the locker room with the locker doors warped from break-ins. He walked up the stairs and came upon three Nigerian women in the lobby.“After school I can find a job in a restaurant,” Sandra Obodo, 26, said as one friend braided her hair and another slept, recovering from a collapse brought on by stress.Ms. Obodo said she had crossed over from Libya nine months ago after escaping retribution murders at home. While her ship had made it to shore after a rough journey, she said, migrants on a boat that departed at the same time had been lost at sea. “It’s not easy,” she said.Father Della Valle said Nigerian traffickers, headquartered nearby in Turin, promised