LONDON — Procedures and processes, as everyone who has spent time waiting for permission to travel in authoritarian regimes knows, are what malevolent bureaucracies take refuge in when they wish to deliver a silent snub. The bureaucrats tell you: We are still waiting for news of your request and have no news either way! There are procedures to be followed! You will just have to be patient! It is out of our hands!The first sign that something was amiss came in April last year, when I was invited to attend an investigative reporting symposium in Berkeley, Calif. The promised post-interview visa didn’t come through in time. It remained “in process,” and I couldn’t board my flight.A few months later, I was offered a fellowship at Harvard. I submitted my visa application several months before my expected date of travel. Yet my J1 educational visa stayed stubbornly “in process.” Another journey to the United States remained out of reach.Graciously, Harvard allowed me to defer my fellowship in the hope of better news in the future. But these onerous travel restrictions on journalists, academics and students go to the heart of what kind of country the United States wants to be.At one of my interviews at the Embassy, I was asked whether I had ever been fingerprinted. I explained that the only time was in Turkey in January 2016 when I was detained for my reporting on the Syrian Kurds, and then expelled from the country. The amiable American official didn’t expect that to be a reason for trouble. He said everyone knew that Turkey’s authoritarian government has little tolerance for independent journalism.Conversations with other journalists reporting on Syria and lawyers offered an explanation. Turkey and the United States routinely share low-level NATO intelligence. The Turkish government’s official reason for my expulsion, after a night in an airport cell, was “public security.”The best guess of my fellow Syria journalists is that the information ended up being shared with the American authorities, whose systems then flagged me as a potential terrorist when I came in for the visa interview.A growing number of journalists and academics are finding themselves unable to report and conduct research across the world as prickly governments use travel bans and visa delays — often in the name of national security — to limit their movements and block their entry.For some of us, it is making it difficult to work. I now find myself banned from Turkey, unable to enter the United States and unable to get a journalist visa from the Syrian government. The Syrian and Turkish governments frequently deny passports and visas to intimidate and humiliate their own citizens, and to deter journalists from writing uncomfortable things.I had expected better from the United States and think of the country as second to none in its egalitarian treatment of outsiders. Many of these restrictions, including the legislation that means that I can no longer claim the visa waiver, pre-date the Trump administration. But the more restrictive approach to immigration under Mr. Trump, and the closer scrutiny of visa applications as a result, have certainly made matters worse.Data on journalists who have been excluded from the United States is difficult to come by. People prefer to seek behind-the-scenes assistance or simply wait. But the stories are trickling out.If the United States continues to treat foreigners with the suspicion and condescension of an authoritarian regime, it will snuff out a good deal of its carefully accumulated expertise on the rest of the world. An atmosphere of openness and intellectual exchange is easily squandered and very difficult to get back.The result may be a cycle of ignorance and missteps, which is bound to be damaging to American interests in the future. Even if the United States wants to retreat from the world, it still has to know what is going on there.James Harkin, the director of the Center for Investigative Journalism in London, is the author of “Hunting Season.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSHONOLULU —  A push to save and expand a visa program unique to the Northern Mariana Islands is hitting skids after recent cases of labor abuse and visa fraud, delivering a major blow to the U.S. commonwealth's economy, which relies heavily on foreign workers.The visa classification, known as CW-1, allows employers to seek permission to hire foreign workers and is aimed at alleviating a labor shortage among the Pacific islands' population of roughly 52,000. The program was launched about a decade ago and has brought in nurses, teachers, hotel maids, bakers and more.But a recent spate of visa abuses in the Northern Mariana Islands has cast a shadow over efforts to bolster the program, due to sunset next year.Just this month, labor authorities reached a $14 million settlement with Chinese companies for exploiting a visa waiver loophole to bring in illegal workers. And a local businessman and two associates were convicted in federal court for their role in a scheme to defraud foreigners by promising them U.S. jobs and green cards in exchange for cash."Seen from the distance of Washington, D.C., this looks like a program that doesn't deserve to be continued — it's not being properly monitored for abuse," said Bruce Mailman, an attorney at Mailman & Kara in Saipan who has worked with companies employing workers on the CW-1 visa. Still, "it's a critical program for this place."Only 4,999 visas have been allotted for 2019, half of what was available the previous year.Cutting the number of visas threatens jobs and hurts the Marianas economy, Rep. Gregorio Sablan, a Democrat representing the islands, said in a March 23 statement. He also has said recent violations of U.S. law give the Marianas a black eye and make it increasingly challenging to maintain a sufficient workforce.A bill introduced in January by Sablan and U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who recently visited the islands, seeks to extend the program for another decade. It would increase the number of visas allotted and crack down on oversight.Provisions to defend against labor abuses include allowing only "legitimate businesses" to be approved for permits — defined as firms that comply with wage laws and safety regulations for at least five years. Companies cannot engage in illegal activities, such as human trafficking, according to a version of the bill from March 20. It also reiterates that construction firms are barred from using the program, a change that passed into law last year in a separate bill.The U.S. Labor Department has found contractors with the Hong Kong firm Imperial Pacific in violation of most of those requirements. Imperial Pacific is building a casino in Saipan, the largest of the Northern Mariana Islands. But construction stalled as thousands of illegal workers returned home to China following an FBI raid after a Chinese man died in a construction accident.The legislation is on hold as Congress is in recess until April 9. By the time lawmakers are back in session, the government will already be accepting applications for 2019.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Companies have long known the CW-1 program would end but continued to favor the program over other visas because it allows them to pay the local minimum wage. In 2008, when the program was introduced, that was $3.55 an hour, far below federally mandated levels.But that incentive is disappearing. Incremental changes over the years have raised the visa's required hourly wage to $7.05, and by this September it will match the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.Saipan businesses that rely on the program are scrambling to make changes. Hong Electric Enterprises, an electric supply firm, has brought in employees on CW-1 permits for years and is working to transition some workers to other visas given uncertainty over the program. "We cannot afford to lose key personnel," said Carol Tamparong, a Hong Electric manager who originally came on a permit.Employers could consider visas including the H-1B for skilled workers or the H-2B for seasonal work, as a federal cap that applies in other states doesn't apply to the Northern Mariana Islands, given the local labor shortage, said Janet King, an immigration attorney in Saipan. Other visas, like the EB-3, which cover a range of jobs from accounting clerks to architects, also confer visa applicants more rights and a path toward a green card.By comparison, a CW-1 visa applies only within the commonwealth and doesn't allow the holder to travel or work elsewhere in the U.S.More than half of the Northern Mariana Islands' workforce is from China, the Philippines and elsewhere, filling 80 percent of all construction and hospitality jobs.Without those workers, the commonwealth's economy would have clocked as much as a 62 percent reduction in 2015, according to a May report by the Government Accountability Office.Demand for the CW-1 program exceeded the number of available permits for the first time in 2016, and the report predicted a labor shortage given plans for additional hotels, casinos and other projects that would require thousands of employees.Foreign workers are vital to the islands, Mailman said."Because of our distance from the U.S. mainland, it's kind of hard to entice people to come out here for jobs that pay below the scale for what they're used to, despite being a tropical paradise," he said.Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - In a broad expansion of the information gathered from applicants for U.S. visas, the federal government is proposing to collect social media identities from nearly everyone who seeks entry into the United States, according to a State Department filing on Friday.The proposal, if approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), would require most immigrant and non-immigrant visa applicants to list all social media identities they have used in the past five years.The information will be used to vet and identify them, according to the proposals, which would affect about 14.7 million people annually.The proposals support President Donald Trump's promise to institute "extreme vetting" of foreigners entering the United states to prevent terrorism.Previously, under rules instituted last May, consular officials were instructed to collect social media identifiers only when they determined “that such information is required to confirm identity or conduct more rigorous national security vetting,” a State Department official said at the time.The State Department said then that the tighter vetting would apply only to those “who have been determined to warrant additional scrutiny in connection with terrorism or other national security-related visa ineligibilities.”The American Civil Liberties Union expressed concern, saying the move would have a "chilling" effect on freedom of speech and association."People will now have to wonder if what they say online will be misconstrued or misunderstood by a government official," Hina Shamsi, director ACLU’s National Security Project, said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We’re also concerned about how the Trump administration defines the vague and over-broad term ‘terrorist activities’ because it is inherently political and can be used to discriminate against immigrants who have done nothing wrong," she said."There is a real risk that social media vetting will unfairly target immigrants and travelers from Muslim-majority countries for discriminatory visa denials, without doing anything to protect national security.”The new proposal was published in the Federal Register on Friday. The public has 60 days to comment on the revised procedures before the OMB approves or rejects them.If approved, the measures also will require applicants to submit five years of previously used telephone numbers, email addresses and their international travel history. They will be asked if they have been deported or removed from any country and whether family members have been involved in terrorist activities, the department said.The department said it intends not to routinely ask most diplomatic and official visa applicants for the additional information.(This version of the story corrects to read "she said," instead of "he said" in ninth paragraph)(Additional reporting by David Brunnstrom and Lesley Wroughton; Editing by Sue Horton, Bill Trott and David Gregorio)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The State Department wants to require all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers, vastly expanding the Trump administration's enhanced vetting of potential immigrants and visitors.In documents to be published in Friday's Federal Register, the department said it wants the public to comment on the proposed new requirements, which will affect nearly 15 million foreigners who apply for visas to enter the U.S. each year. Previously, social media, email and phone number histories were only sought from applicants identified for extra scrutiny, such as those who have traveled to areas controlled by terrorist organizations. An estimated 65,000 people per year are in that category.The new rules would apply to virtually all applicants for immigrant and non-immigrant visas. The department estimates it would affect 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants, including those who want to come to the U.S. for business or education, according to the documents.The documents were posted on the Federal Register's website on Thursday but the 60-day public comment period won't begin until Friday's edition is published.If the requirements are approved by the Office of Management and Budget, applications for all visa types would list a number of social media platforms and require the applicant to provide any account names they may have had on them over the previous five years. It would also give the applicant the option to volunteer information about social media accounts on platforms not listed in the application.In addition to their social media histories, visa applicants will be asked for five years of previously used telephone numbers, email addresses, international travel and deportation status, as well as whether any family members have been involved in terrorist activities.Only applicants for certain diplomatic and official visa types may be exempted from the requirements, the documents said.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  The U.S. State Department granted a visa to a man in Iran hoping to donate bone marrow to his U.S. citizen brother with blood cancer, obtaining a rare waiver to President Donald Trump's travel ban, the family's lawyer said on Thursday.Mahsa Khanbabai, a lawyer based in Massachusetts, said she received a call on Thursday from the consulate in Yerevan, Armenia where Kamiar Hashemi had applied for a visa in February after he learned he was a rare 100 percent match for a transplant that could potentially save his brother's life.The status of the visa application was "refused" on the Department's website but Khanbabai said she was told on the call that a waiver had been granted, two days after Reuters first reported on the case, and that Hashemi should make arrangements to travel to Armenia to pick it up.The State Department through a spokeswoman said it was unable to comment on a specific visa case.Trump's travel ban, which the U.S. Supreme Court allowed to go into effect on Dec. 8 after months of legal wrangling, puts permanent bars on most travelers to the United States from Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea, as well as certain government officials from Venezuela. Although the ban allows for case-by-case waivers to be granted, attorneys and applicants say the process is opaque with few clear guidelines on how to apply and why waivers are, or are not, granted.Since the ban took effect, the State Department told Reuters more than 375 waivers have been approved, but declined to say for which countries and out of how many applications."It's unfortunate that so much effort had to go into getting just one, clearly urgent, visa approved," said Khanbabai. "There are thousands of people are stuck, also with urgent cases, with no idea what is happening."(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Editing by James Dalgleish)Go to Home Page »Hundreds of immigrants hoping to escape violence in Yemen and join their families in the United States received an official notice last year from the State Department that started with a long-anticipated message: “Your visa is approved.”But those turned out to be just words.After the third version of the Trump administration’s travel ban took effect on Dec. 8, their approvals abruptly turned to rejections, in what lawyers, family members and immigration activists said was a display of bad faith.Many of those rejected had been told by the embassy that their visas were approved as early as last July, after being interviewed by the State Department. The approval notices, on a half-size piece of paper in English and Arabic, also said: “We cannot guarantee how long it will take to print it and have your passport ready for pickup. You should check the status of your visa online.”Julie Goldberg, a lawyer in Djibouti, said hundreds of people had come to her doorstep since mid-December. She estimated that more than 300 Yemeni nationals had been rejected so far. “There’s no explanation for getting denied — everybody’s getting denied,” she said in a telephone interview from her home there, which serves as a legal clinic. “It’s complete hopelessness. I have women sobbing.”But the State Department said there was an explanation: However final it may seem, an approval notice is not a guarantee, said an official with the department who spoke anonymously because its employees are not authorized to speak publicly. Such a notice should have been considered provisional, the official said, because at the time, the vetting of the would-be immigrants was not yet complete. The ban’s assurances, the official said, applied only to those holding actual visas.But the notice — with the case number written in pen to identify the visa applicant — seemed like the last word to the immigrants and those working on their behalf. “We looked at it like that for all of our clients,” said Mosheer Fittahey, a consultant for Marhaba Service in Albany, which assists Yemeni nationals in legal, financial and travel transactions.Mr. Fittahey said 111 Yemeni-Americans from across the country have contacted him on behalf of their relatives who received approval notices followed by rejections from the embassy in Djibouti. More calls come daily. About 60 percent of the cases there involve women and children, he said.Mohammed Alawadhi, a doctor in Arkansas, said that his wife, Rasha Alzabaidi, 27, who has a heart ailment, received an approval from the embassy in Djibouti on Dec. 6.On Dec. 17, a day when numerous families were emptying out of the embassy with rejection notices, Ms. Alzabaidi called her husband in a panic, Dr. Alawadhi recalled. “She said to me: ‘Mohammad, they shattered families. I am seeing families in the street crying like they have a death in the family.’”Four days later, she got her rejection notice. “I was shattered,” Dr. Alawadhi said.Brooklyn-born Malik Almathil, 27, first applied for a visa for his Yemeni wife, Shaima Almathil, 22, in April 2016. For a year, the couple lived in Malaysia, until she was told to go to Djibouti for her interview in July. She walked out of the United States Embassy in Djibouti on July 31 with her visa approved. As with Ms. Alzabaidi, the approval form told her to check online for when the visa would be printed and she could pick up her passport. She kept checking, to no avail.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Aug. 14, Samerah Alawdi, 38, a mother of seven whose husband, a naturalized American citizen, cares for four of their United States-born children in Michigan, received the same approval note.Both waited in Djibouti until she and her three children were also rejected in December.Many say they sold their homes or cars and took out loans in the United States, incurring costs in the thousands of dollars.The third travel ban restricts immigration from countries that the Trump administration determined had inadequate vetting procedures of prospective immigrants because of faulty information sharing, and had a significant terrorist presence and therefore represented a threat to United States security.Omar Jadwat, the director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, one of several groups that sued the government over the travel ban, said the third ban did not seem to take any special cases into account.“It’s a predictable attempt to maximize the number of people that they ban under this order even when the more logical and humane approach would be to not take away visas that, but for the stamp, were practically already issued,” Mr. Jadwat said.At the end of December, more than 100 Yemeni-Americans gathered in Foley Square in Lower Manhattan to protest the treatment of their friends and relatives being rejected for visas. They came from Queens and Staten Island, and as far away as Buffalo, Michigan and North Carolina, waving American flags and holding signs like, “We want our Mom,” and “We all have stories to tell.”Lawyers in the United States said that there have also been numerous Iranians overseas with apparent approvals who have been rejected since the latest ban was enacted. As in Yemen, there is no functioning United States Embassy in Iran, forcing people to travel to apply in Saudi Arabia; Armenia; Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates; and Turkey to interview for visas.Seyed Mousavi, 24, a naturalized citizen from Iran who is an investment banker in Los Angeles, got engaged to his fiancée, Arefé Fayazbakhsh, in July. He said that Ms. Fayazbakhsh, 19, a student at the University of Tehran, had her interview for a visa on Dec. 7 at the American Embassy in Yerevan, Armenia. The consular officer told her that if she stayed in Yerevan for another two days, he could get her the visa.But on Dec. 8, the day the ban went into effect, while she was still waiting in Armenia, the embassy called her back in and told her she had been rejected. Now the young couple is deciding where they could live, while Mr. Mousavi contemplates giving up his career in the United States.“It’s really hard for me to go through months and months of uncertainty, with the feeling that I don’t have control of my life, and I have to wait and see what the president of my nation decides for me,” Mr. Mousavi said in a telephone interview recently.Ms. Goldberg, the lawyer in Djibouti, is planning to file multiple lawsuits in the United States on behalf of her rejected clients, many of them small children.In the meantime, the embassy in Djibouti is still interviewing visa applicants from Yemen.Abdo Alfgeeh, 42, who lives in Mohegan Lake, N.Y., applied for his wife and three children, ages 16 to 21, in June 2015. They were finally approved for an interview on Jan. 29.“They have to be there for the interview,” Mr. Alfgeeh said, “even though there is a big chance they will be refused like everybody else was.”See More »Go to Home Page »It is known as the “Einstein visa.” Nuclear scientists, Nobel laureates and doctors get it. But so do acrobats, stunt men, event planners — and plenty of models.Each year, thousands of foreigners try to persuade government officials that they are among the best in their field. The prize if they succeed: a green card, and with it, the right to live permanently in the United States.But several immigration lawyers rebuffed those questions, saying the requirements for the EB-1 immigrant visa leave far more room for interpretation than its nickname and its best-and-brightest reputation suggest.While the program may be the pinnacle of the merit-based immigration policies supported by critics of the visa lottery and family-based migration — indeed, by President Trump himself — the decision of what constitutes merit, while based on established criteria, is ultimately subjective and often surprising.“Recipients are supposed to be the best of the best,” said Rita Sostrin, a Los Angeles-based lawyer who has written extensively about EB-1s, “but meeting the criteria is no guarantee. An adjudication officer makes a judgment call.”The “extraordinary ability” immigrant visa category is one of the few visas for which an applicant does not require an employer or family sponsor. Only 5,530 people received a green card through that program in the fiscal year that ended in September 2016, the latest for which data is available, out of some one million issued. In 2001, when Mrs. Trump got hers, even fewer were granted.Marshall Cohen, a lawyer in Atlanta who specializes in EB-1s for world-ranked track and field athletes, said that he would not have hesitated to represent Mrs. Trump.“I am assuming she made a lot of money, got a lot of press and was on the cover of magazines,” he said. “She was probably a pretty easy case.”Mrs. Trump, then Melania Knauss, appeared on the cover of British GQ in 2000, the year she petitioned for the EB-1, and was featured in Sports Illustrated and other magazines later that year.“Do we need more foreign fashion models? Some might say no,” said Mr. Cohen, who led a panel titled “Proving Extraordinary Ability Is Extraordinarily Challenging” at a recent immigration lawyers’ conference. “We might need more chemical engineers. But if there is a fashion model at the top of her field, she could qualify.”Once those are met, the decision comes down to a vague and undefined “final merits determination” by the immigration agency.“That is the mystery; nobody knows what it is,” said Ms. Sostrin, the lawyer in Los Angeles, who recently secured EB-1s for an award-winning stunt performer and a high-end events planner.What is clear is that extraordinary intelligence is not necessary — nor sufficient on its own — to get one. Indeed, even Albert Einstein might have not qualified for an EB-1 before winning the Nobel Prize.A few years ago, Ms. Sostrin distributed a résumé to immigration lawyers at a conference without revealing that it was Einstein’s, or at least one devised from his career accomplishments. Ms. Sostrin asked them to assess the likelihood that he would be approved for an extraordinary ability visa.The consensus was that it would be very challenging: The résumé, for a tutor and patent examiner turned professor, listed only a handful of the most important scientific works Einstein had published by 1920, more than a decade into his academic career.“The notion that you somehow have to be a genius or Einstein is utter fiction,” said Chris Wright, a lawyer based in Los Angeles. “We have succeeded with models no more accomplished than Melania Trump.”While the majority of applicants and recipients have titles like “space scientist,” “cancer researcher” and “software engineer,” many have less scholarly pursuits. In 2012, Mr. Wright represented Shera Béchard, a Canadian model and Playboy Playmate who successfully petitioned for an EB-1. In her petition, Mr. Wright included scantily clad photographs of Ms. Béchard.“When it’s a glamorous model and pictures show cleavage rather than research, people assume there is something underhanded going on,” said Mr. Wright, who said that he had also obtained the visas for a racecar driver, a hair dresser and a tennis player.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Glenn Boswell, a stunt performer and director used to jumping out of buildings and moving vehicles, getting the EB-1 was a relative cake walk.His lawyer filed a 439-page petition in 2016 detailing Mr. Boswell’s achievements, which include credits in “Unbroken,” “The Matrix” and “The Hobbit,” and he received approval within a week. “I was really excited when it came,” Mr. Boswell, 60, said in a phone interview from his native Australia. He had no idea he had joined an exclusive club.Daniel Riffner, 35, an acrobat for Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas, compiled a dossier in 2009 about his 25-year career, packed with medals, pictures of his high-wire acts and recommendations from coaches. Kinan Azmeh, 41, a Syrian clarinetist in Brooklyn who is a member of Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Ensemble, applied in 2012. Both received green cards.Mr. Trump has championed an immigration overhaul that would replace the current family-based system, which he derides as “chain migration,” with one based on merit, emphasizing skill and educational level. His proposal would have made it impossible for the first lady to sponsor her parents for a green card, which she did after obtaining permanent legal residency and becoming a citizen herself. Meanwhile, highly skilled people, whether scientists or entrepreneurs, often get turned down when they apply to work and live in the country.Especially under the Trump administration, immigration lawyers said, U.S.C.I.S. has made a habit of making requests for further evidence before deciding the fate of an applicant. The lawyers also said that scholars and scientists have a tougher time winning approval than models, actors and athletes.Elissa Taub, a lawyer in Memphis who secured the EB-1 for the German gymnast, said that some of her denials “burn me to this day,” like that of a nuclear astrophysicist who had produced groundbreaking work at a national lab. Immigration officials said his title on the job was not senior enough to merit the EB-1.“We lost a great scientific mind due to this crazy decision,” she said of the scholar, who returned to India.In another case, U.S.C.I.S. acknowledged that a Chinese researcher had fulfilled three criteria to qualify, but that “scientists who have risen to the very top of the field have garnered citations numbered in the thousands,” not in the hundreds, as he had shown. He was denied.Despite ample documentation and detailed letters from world-renowned experts supporting the petition of a molecular oncologist who studies drug-resistant cancer, U.S.C.I.S. questioned whether her scholarship was significant. After her lawyer submitted further evidence, she was approved.“These are people we should be rolling out the red carpet for,” said David Soloway, the lawyer who handled the case.“Most people would readily say that it makes sense for someone who is extraordinarily skilled in the sciences to be admitted to this country,” Mr. Soloway added. “But in modeling? Really?”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Albert Einstein’s record of scientific publication. By 1920, he had published more than 200 works, not a handful. The résumé based on his career to that point that was distributed to immigration lawyers at a conference included seven of his important works, not all he had published.See More »Go to Home Page »BUDAPEST —  A Syrian man who is under U.S. sanctions for assisting the Syrian government received residency status in Hungary under a visa bond program launched by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government, two Hungarian websites reported.The investigative portals Direkt36 and 444.hu said on Wednesday in a joint report, citing unnamed sources, that Hungary gave a residency permit to Atiya Khoury, who the United States accused in 2016 of paying for fuel procurements for President Bashar al-Assad's government.The "golden visa scheme" launched in 2013, which guarantees temporary residency for at least five years to foreigners buying a Hungarian bond for up to 300,000 euros, helped Hungary raise funds at a time when its credit rating languished in "junk" status. Hungary halted the program last year.Orban's chief of staff Janos Lazar told a regular news conference that national security bodies had screened all those who had bought residency bonds."I'm sure that they screened everyone very thoroughly ... I have no doubt about that," he said when asked repeatedly about the report. He did not address specific details in the report.The websites' allegation that certain Syrians were among those allowed to buy residency comes at a sensitive time for Orban's right-wing government which has been fiercely campaigning against Muslim immigrants ahead of an election on April 8.The websites said it could also be a worrying lapse of national security, if it were confirmed.Orban is seeking a third consecutive term and his party has a lead over the opposition in the opinion polls.The opposition Socialist party urged the government to clarify whether it let "criminals" settle in Hungary, and the opposition Democratic Coalition and LMP parties demanded more clarity on the issue.The Immigration Office did not reply to Reuters questions regarding the identity of the man who the websites said received his status under the bond program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The government did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. Hungary's intelligence agency did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment.Reuters could not independently verify the websites' report, which did not say when the Syrian man was given the visa.Direkt36 said it received a list of names from an unnamed source which included individuals from several countries, not just Syria, who took part in the visa program. Another source familiar with the administrative process confirmed the man and his relatives received residency permits through the program, Direkt36 said.It highlighted a second Syrian man who Italian authorities suspect took part in an international money-laundering scheme. Direkt36 said he was detained by police on Nov. 28, 2017, in Hungary. Police did not reply to requests for comment.The U.S. Treasury Department said on its website at the time when it imposed sanctions that the man the Hungarian websites identified, alternatively spelled as Atiya Khouri by the U.S. Treasury, operated a firm Moneta Transfer & Exchange and moved cash between Syria, Lebanon, and Russia on behalf of another man, and with authority from the government of Syria,"He paid for fuel procurement for the government of Syria using Moneta Transfer & Exchange and received a commission for these transactions," it added at the time.It was not possible to contact the man.(Reporting by Krisztina Than; Editing by Alison Williams)Go to Home Page »Supported byBut visiting musicians like Mr. Amram and Ms. Bridgewater spoke of their role as cultural ambassadors who could touch hearts in spite of political borders. “My being here is my way of saying, yes, Cuba, yes, you all amazing musicians, I stand with you,” Ms. Bridgewater said at a news conference, raising her fist in solidarity. “I am your sister in music and that is all I care about.”For the Cuban expatriate Yosvany Terry, the festival marked the first time in 18 years he was able to bring his own quintet from the States to the island. Now a lecturer at Harvard, Mr. Terry is a native of Camagüey, Cuba. The novelty of being on his home turf electrified the saxophonist’s set at the sprawling arts venue Fábrica de Arte Cubano, where he was joined onstage by his father, Don Pancho, who played the shekere, as well as his brother Yunior, who plays bass in the band.Alain Pérez, who performed with his own orchestra at the Casa de Cultura, is perhaps best known to audiences outside Cuba for his work on bass with the Spanish flamenco guitarist Paco de Lucía. Earlier in the evening at the Teatro Nacional, the multiinstrumentalist from Trinidad thrilled audiences when he took the stage with the Orquesta Aragón for “Sin Clave Y Bongó No Hay Son,” first as lead singer, then taking virtuosic solos on drums, piano and bass.In 1977, Mr. Amram was part of the first group of American citizens to travel to Cuba since 1961. At 87, Mr. Amram is the last surviving bandleader from that trip, which also included Dizzy Gillespie, Stan Getz and Earl Hines (known as Fatha). At this year’s festival, he carried a briefcase containing a number of flutes, burned CDs of his “Havana/New York” album from 1977, and a plastic bag of buttons bearing the faces of Gillespie and Chano Pozo.Ms. Arocena performed barefoot and clad in all white in the tradition of Santería ceremonies. Earlier this month, she traveled with her band to Mexico to apply for visas to attend an upcoming Grammy event in New York. “It’s insane,” she said in an interview, venting her frustration about the process. “Immigration is a thing animals do — moving from one place to another to get what they need. Sometimes I think animals are more intelligent than humans.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — Dozens of countries, mostly in Europe, must meet additional security requirements for their citizens to continue to be allowed into the United States without a visa, the Department of Homeland Security said on Friday.The countries must begin sharing additional background information and establish effective safeguards against threats by foreign airport workers. Some will also be required to start a public relations campaign to discourage their citizens from overstaying their visits.Homeland security officials said the new measures did not come as a result of a specific threat but part of a continuous review of national security measures to protect the United States from terrorist attacks.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.No timeline has been set for countries to carry out the changes, and officials did not say how countries would be punished if they failed to put the changes in effect. The secretary of homeland security has the authority to remove countries from the visa-waiver program.An estimated 629,000 visitors — a little more than 1 percent of all travelers — remained in the United States at the end of last year after overstaying their visas as students, workers or tourists, according to the Department of Homeland Security.Although the figure represents a small portion of the estimated 20 million visitors to the country, homeland security officials say the failure of some people to leave when their visas lapse presents a national security risk. Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Satam al-Suqami and Nawaq Alhazmi, overstayed their visas.Only countries that have overstay rates of 2 percent or more will be required to begin an education campaign. Four meet that threshold: Hungary, Greece, Portugal and San Marino, a tiny country surrounded by Italy.The Department of Homeland Security has struggled to document visa overstays. A report in May by its inspector general found that the agency could not account for all of them in data it reports to Congress.Lawmakers and intelligence and law enforcement officials said that while the program had proved to be secure, they still worried that some of the travelers who could pose a security threat might overstay their visits.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byBrazil is hoping to attract more tourists by allowing Americans, Canadians, Japanese and Australian citizens to obtain visas online. Here’s what to see when you get there.“If we want to compete for international tourists, we need to do away with the bureaucracy and extend a red carpet so they choose our destinations,” Brazil’s tourism minister Marx Beltrão said in a statement.The e-visa program is kicking in weeks before the Brazilian government is expected to sign an “open skies” agreement with the United States. The pact will allow market forces, rather than government regulators, to dictate the frequency and destination of flights between the two countries.Open skies agreements that Washington has signed with other countries have significantly expanded the number of daily flights, leading to cheaper fares. Since the United States signed one with Colombia in 2010, for instance, three new airlines began offering service between the two countries, eight new routes were launched and daily flights more than doubled.The Brazilian government estimates that the e-visa system will increase travel from the four eligible countries by 25 percent and make Brazil a more attractive destination to hold conferences and other large events. More than 570,000 Americans traveled to Brazil in 2016, according to the tourism ministry, a figure exceeded only by the number of Argentines who flock to the beaches in the country each year.So why visit Brazil now? Having arrived here last July to run coverage of the southern cone of South America for The New York Times, I have a few tips — and a word of caution.Rio de Janeiro, my new hometown, is a dazzling seaside metropolis with an embarrassment of riches for beachgoers and music lovers. If you’ve never been, it should be at the top of your list.But be forewarned about the city’s notorious traffic jams and graffiti-smeared streets that give much of the city a blighted feel.If you’ve been there, done that, consider going a bit further afield.You can travel to Brazil’s wine country — yes, there is one! — near the southern city of Porto Alegre. While Brazil’s wine sector is dwarfed by industry titans Argentina and Chile, several sparkling wines made here are excellent and reasonably priced.Seeking more adventure than a buzz? Consider a trip to the Pantanal, the largest wetlands in the world, in Mato Grosso do Sul state. You can catch a glimpse of jaguars, macaws and caimans by going on safari-like tours. There are also beautiful waterfalls and freshwater rivers to swim in.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorWhen I tell people that I was born in Uzbekistan, they usually say I am the first Uzbek-American they have ever met. Just as often, they admit they can’t even name a single Uzbek. I worry that the horrific terrorist attack in Lower Manhattan on Tuesday by Sayfullo Saipov, an Uzbek native, has changed that for the worse.President Trump placed blame for the attack on the State Department’s “diversity lottery” visa program, through which Mr. Saipov entered this country, and he called for its end. The lottery has few preconditions, but applicants must come from countries with little immigration to America. It would be a shame to eliminate it. The program has allowed my family and countless other immigrants to thrive. Moreover, such a craven move would mean America loses a chance to fight extremism across the world by defining its values on its own terms rather than letting its enemies do so.I had always wanted to be a college baseball player and was thrilled when recruiters from Oberlin College in Ohio came knocking. I was a student-athlete there and achieved the most coveted prize among immigrants: an American college education. Through hard work and more than a little bit of luck, I was awarded the Rhodes Scholarship and I’m in my last year of graduate study at the University of Oxford.My parents laid the foundation for my success. They have dedicated their lives to public service, spending a vast majority of their careers, absent a few years when they were learning English, working at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2015, they even traveled to Sierra Leone, the epicenter of the Ebola outbreak, to help slow the spread of the virus.The diversity visa program should also be preserved because, for many people across the globe, a relative or a neighbor who has managed to immigrate to the United States is their only authentic connection with the country. This was certainly true for my family. At a time when groups ranging from state-sponsored media to terrorist organizations denounce the United States as “the Great Satan,” America can’t afford to turn its back on an opportunity to portray itself as an open, tolerant and diverse nation.Most important, America is obligated to live up to its promise as a shining city on a hill for aspiring immigrants across the world. The country has always served as a place where people were limited only by the bounds of their imaginations or the scope of their dreams. No person has a greater claim to the American dream than any other, and it would be uniquely un-American to systematically exclude the residents of some nations in an immigration system that disproportionately favors those who are related to those already in the United States.We face a number of complex challenges in both immigration and national security. As we confront them, however, we have to remember that in America, you’re defined less by where you came from and more by where you are going.Machmud Makhmudov is studying political theory at University of Oxford on the Rhodes scholarship.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOp-Ed ContributorSix months ago I won the lottery — the H-1B visa processing lottery for skilled foreign workers. I called my thrilled parents and celebrated with friends. I’m from northeastern China and have an M.B.A. from Stanford, and was planning to stay in Silicon Valley to help start a company based on a promising new technology to improve the use of data. I was overjoyed because, historically, being selected in the lottery was a near guarantee that an applicant could remain in this country at least three more years.But at the end of July, I received the dreaded Request for Further Evidence from immigration authorities. I provided the extra information that United States Citizenship and Immigration Services asked for. In September, I got another request. I complied again. Finally, on Oct. 11, half a year after my celebration, I learned I had been denied a visa.After earning law degrees in China and at Oxford, after having worked in Hong Kong as a lawyer at a top international firm, after coming to United States three years ago for an M.B.A. and graduating and joining a start-up, I was given just 60 days to leave the country. I have 17 days left.Many of my fellow international students are in situations similar to mine. Some had job offers from companies like Google, Apple and PwC when they learned that their applications had been denied or did not even make it into the lottery. For those whose employers have only United States offices, losing the lottery meant losing jobs and going home, with no real way to use the skills they were on the verge of contributing to the American economy.My two requests for evidence asked me to prove my job was a “specialty occupation” — that is, work that only someone with a bachelor’s degree or higher can do. My work involves artificial intelligence and big data, and my letters of support came from an authority in my industry and veteran start-up investor, and a Nobel Prize winner. But it wasn’t enough to convince the government that my job requires advanced skills.It’s true that I’m brokenhearted about missing the chance to return to China to care for my mother (she insisted that I stay and pursue the visa that was her dream for me), but I’m not looking for sympathy. As much as I hate to leave, I know I will be fine.Rather, I’m frustrated, because I know I’m part of a pattern: America is losing many very skilled workers because of its anti-immigrant sentiment, and while this is a disappointing blow to me and my classmates, it will also be a blow to the United States’ competitiveness in the global economy. Tech giants such as Google and Tesla were founded by immigrants.I can’t make sense of why an administration that claims to want this country to be strong would be so eager to get rid of us. We are losing our dreams, and America is losing the value we bring.As I make plans to go back to China, I find myself wondering: If I am not qualified to stay in the United States, then who is?Frida Yu is a lawyer and entrepreneur.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSHORGOS, China — Except for men with long beards and women wearing veils or jewelry with a crescent moon motif, just about anyone can enter Chinese territory — at least a few miles of it — across a frontier marked only by two thin stripes of paint daubed across the road.The stripes — one red, one light blue — demarcate the border between China’s restive region of Xinjiang in the far west of the country and Kazakhstan, a Central Asian neighbor.The visa-free border area is the result of an agreement between China and Kazakhstan that in 2012 established a special economic development zone covering three square miles and comprising territory from both countries. China has set up many special zones over the years, but they are all firmly within its borders and open only to Chinese and foreigners with Chinese visas.“This is one of a kind,” said Alexey A. Ivanov, the vice president of the Kazakh side of the zone, which is fenced off from the rest of Kazakhstan and effectively operates as a separate ministate, governed by managers appointed by Kazakhstan’s state railway corporation.Posters written in Russian, a language most Kazakhs can understand, make clear that the area is not entirely at peace. They offer a “friendly” warning that bushy beards and Islamic clothing are not welcome in China and include photos of prohibited dress and jewelry. An American diplomat with a hipster-style beard who tried to visit recently got stopped by the People’s Armed Police and was let in only after Mr. Ivanov convinced the Chinese that he was not a potential terrorist.A New York Times correspondent with a short beard had no trouble walking across the stripes in the road into China, despite a long history of difficulty obtaining a Chinese visa.RUSSIAKAZAKHSTANMONGOLIAHorgosXinjiangBeijingCHINAINDIAThe atmosphere is more bizarre than menacing, and none of the people questioned on either side of the border expressed any worries about safety. Shao Yuqun, a Chinese construction worker laboring in the snow, said he was far more anxious about frostbite than Islamist terrorism. Like many Han Chinese living in Xinjiang but originally from the other side of the country, he said he had migrated west because he could earn more than at home.Instead, it has become a study in the wide economic gulf that has opened up between a booming China, which used to look up to the Soviet Union as its “big brother,” and struggling former Soviet lands.Kazakhstan, which takes pride in its ability, unlike Russia, to deliver results, has big plans for its side of the economic development zone with China, including a racetrack, a local version of Disneyland to be called Happyland, luxury hotels and dozens of entertainment, shopping and conference centers. It also has plans for an airport.The Chinese side, meanwhile, is already studded with real buildings, including four big shopping malls flashing neon signs and full of stalls papered with pleas for business in mangled Russian. It had a head start, in that the Chinese portion of the joint zone is connected to an existing city and thus did not need much extra work to get electricity, water and other basic services.The Kazakh side, in contrast, had to be built from scratch, and it shows: The place is a barren, snow-covered wasteland with only a single duty-free shop and a few barely started building sites. Its main attraction for Chinese visitors is a stretch Cadillac limousine offering tours of the desolate landscape.Around two million Chinese enter the zone each year, far more than the number of Kazakhs, but they mostly stay on the Chinese side. Traffic across the barely marked border, at least in winter, flows almost entirely one way. Only a trickle of Chinese pass into Kazakhstan as throngs of Kazakhs pour in the other direction to shop for clothing, toys and electronic goods, many of them counterfeit, in Chinese shops.“It is not Hong Kong or Shanghai, but it is a great chance for us to see what China is like,” said Aidos Sarym, a Kazakh political analyst who has visited. The experience, he added, will help calm a widespread fear felt by many Kazakhs of China and its people.While there is not much to see yet on the Kazakh side other than snow, Mr. Ivanov, the deputy director, thinks his desolate domain can still attract waves of Chinese tourists in the future. “Eighty percent of Chinese don’t have passports, and this is the only chance they have to visit a foreign country,” he said.Before entering the fenced-off special zone, visitors from Kazakhstan have to pass through Kazakh border controls, while those from China pass through Chinese checkpoints at the edge of the Chinese area. Each country trusts the other not to let in anyone who might cause trouble in the visa-free area.On visitors’ way out, Kazakh customs officials are supposed to check that they are not carrying more than 50 kilograms, or 110 pounds, of goods from China. The weight restriction was imposed at the insistence of the Russia-dominated Eurasian Economic Union, a customs union of which Kazakhstan is a founding member. Russia worries that goods entering Kazakhstan duty free via the special trade zone will end up flooding Russian markets.Kazakhstan restricts each person to one shopping trip a month, but rampant corruption has made the checks sporadic at best. A long list of Kazakh officials, including police and customs officers, have been arrested over the years for running rackets that help people dodge customs duties.The former director of the Kazakh part of the zone, Vasily Ni, was dismissed after being accused of taking a $1 million bribe. The charges against him were later dropped, to widespread public dismay, as he had been caught on camera taking the money.The Chinese side, too, has been dogged by suspicions of financial shenanigans amid worries that the special development zone, which offers tax breaks to businesses that register there, is becoming a haven for Chinese companies eager to dodge taxes.Officials on both sides, however, insist the whole project is a triumph, with China pitching it as “the door to Central Asia and a flourishing success.”Go to Home Page »The two terrorist attacks six weeks apart in New York City carried out by two recent immigrants were swiftly contained and the suspects arrested. But the political consequences instantly started reverberating.The Trump administration would like to end both those programs, and the two suspects quickly became Exhibit A and Exhibit B in the case to restrict legal immigration.At Tuesday’s White House press briefing, L. Francis Cissna, the director of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said Mr. Ullah’s uncle had won a diversity visa and, after becoming a United States citizen, sponsored his nephew for permanent residency. What the administration called “extended-family chain migration” needs to be broken, Mr. Cissna said.“You can sponsor a person, like yesterday’s alleged terrorist, at the extremity of that chain, and that person can in turn sponsor people, and so on and so on, indefinitely,” he said.“It is my view, it is our administration’s view, that that is not the way that we should be running our immigration system,” Mr. Cissna said.In New York on Tuesday, both Mayor Bill de Blasio and immigration professors said “family reunification” could be a less pejorative synonym for “chain migration.”“You and probably a lot of people in your family are only here because other family members who were allowed to come after the first family members got here,” Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, said. “That’s called family reunification. But if we’re now talking about a new generation of immigrants who are, in many cases, people of color, and suddenly it’s ‘chain migration,’ and it’s a bad thing.”Philip Kasinitz, a sociology professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, added, “On balance, this system has worked out pretty well.” He continued: “The fact that most legal immigrants are related to people who are already here means that newcomers arrive with connections to people who are already established. This give them a leg up in finding jobs and getting settled.”In the parlance of immigration, the first through third family preferences go to a citizen’s spouse, children and their children. The fourth preference is for a citizen’s siblings and their children — what the immigration services director called “the most extreme, remote possible family-based connection that you can possibly have under current immigration law.”President Trump, in an October statement, said that only spouses of American citizens and their children who are minors should be allowed into the country as immigrants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While Mr. Cissna said that of the one million immigrants who get visas every year, hundreds of thousands of people come to the country through family preferences annually. However, the numbers in the last category of family visas is relatively low.Statistics show that the majority of those receiving the visas are from Asia. According to the State Department, in the 2016 fiscal year, a total of 7,196 people from Bangladesh obtained them, the third highest country of origin, behind Vietnam and India.There is an argument, said Richard Alba, a professor of sociology at the Graduate Center, that those high numbers make up for the deficit created by the quotas and exclusions of Asian immigrants during the late 19th century and early 20th century.“If it weren’t for immigration, New York City would be a far smaller, older, less economically successful city by a substantial margin,” said John Mollenkopf, the director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.New York saw a tenfold growth in Bangladeshi-born residents from 1990, when there were 8,748 of them in the city, to 2016, when there were 81,234, Prof. Mollenkopf said.The diversity visa, which lets in 50,000 immigrants annually, was a primary entry point for Bangladeshi immigrants 10 years ago, Mr. Cissna said. The program was originally created in 1990 to stimulate immigration from European countries that were outnumbered by South Asian immigrants after 1965 immigration laws opened the doors to Asians.In 2007, the peak year for Bangladeshis, 27 percent of the immigrants from that country came through the diversity program, Mr. Cissna said. But the numbers multiplied to the point that in 2012, Bangladesh was no longer eligible for the lottery, the State Department said.Uzbeks in New York and around the country have similarly benefited from the diversity visa lottery. In 2010, 70 percent of immigrants from Uzbekistan came through that path.Mr. Cissna said that would-be terrorists could exploit the program because it had low standards of admission. “Pretty much anybody on the planet who’s from a qualifying country can take advantage of this,” he said.But he said he did not have information about immigrants admitted through the diversity program who ended up being radicalized.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »ISTANBUL — Americans planning an impromptu visit to Istanbul have been turned back. Board members of one school have had to postpone meetings. A Turkish entrepreneur, after spending two years setting up a business in New York, finds herself in limbo, her visa appointment canceled.Alarmed at the arrest of two of its locally employed consular staff and the detention of the wife and daughter of a third employee, American officials are demanding assurances that its staff members will not be arrested for carrying out United States business.They are also demanding that those already arrested be released unless Turkey can provide compelling evidence against them.Until then, things remain frozen.Both countries have allowed travelers visas on humanitarian grounds, and people holding existing visas can travel, but a few Americans have been refused entry at Istanbul airport, and more have had to cancel their trips.“It is having some impact on people’s plans for the mid- to long-term,” said Matthew Bryza, a former United States ambassador and chief executive of Lamor Corporation in Turkey.He criticized the visa ban as the wrong tool, but said he was buoyed by the restraint in the language used by both sides to seek a resolution.Thousands of Turks have had to suspend their plans, too. The visa shops and cafes lining the street opposite the United States Consulate in Istanbul were closed this week. A lone man typing in his office said there were no appointments at the consulate, so no business.A fashion promoter was set to have her interview this week for an entrepreneur’s visa but was informed by email that her interview had been canceled. She asked that her name not be published but said she was dismayed that after two years of work and $100,000 of investment in an office in Manhattan’s trendy SoHo district, she faced new legal requirements and more paperwork reapplying in a third country.Relations between Turkey and the United States have been strained since last year’s failed coup, which Turkey blames on Fethullah Gulen, an Islamist cleric who lives in self-imposed exile on a large estate in Pennsylvania.Turkey has been upset by the United States’ perceived reluctance to extradite Mr. Gulen — the United States says Turkey has not provided evidence that would convince a federal judge — and by the United States’ arming of Kurdish forces in Syria, which Turkey fears will strengthen Kurdish separatists in Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Two weeks ago, Metin Topuz, who has worked at the Istanbul consulate for the Drug Enforcement Administration for over 20 years, was arrested on similar charges.The recent detentions prompted the United States visa suspension, an unexpected and drastic action that seems to have halted the arrest of a third employee. Since the suspension, the Turkish police have not pursued Mr. Canturk, who has continued to work every day at the consulate.But his wife and daughter were detained for more than a week in Amasya. They were released Monday evening on the eve of the arrival of Mr. Cohen, the State Department official, but remain under judicial control and cannot leave the country.The American action followed a similar turn in German-Turkish relations several months ago, when Germany reacted to the arrests of several Germans in Turkey by threatening economic sanctions and restricting support for Turkey’s application for membership in the European Union.Turkish officials have indicated that they want the visa suspension to end.“I don’t think that this is a problem that will drag on,” Mr. Erdogan said on Thursday. “This delegation is here to finish it. The talks are ongoing. My wish is for a result as soon as possible, leave the visa issue behind and that relations return to its normal situation.”Yet, in other comments later the same day to a gathering of party supporters, Mr. Erdogan continued to rail against United States policy, in particular at perceived American reluctance to extradite Mr. Gulen.“They think we are strategic partners and that we will obey everything,” he said of American officials. “Now they are asking me to give them some people. But first you should give me the one in the ranch,” a reference to Mr. Gulen and his Pennsylvania home.Going into talks Wednesday, Mr. Cohen told Turkish journalists that the United States was seeking assurances that Turkey would not detain consular employees for contacts made in the normal course of their work, and that it wanted the arrested employees to be released or to be shown compelling evidence of their wrongdoing.Turkish officials have concentrated on lifting the visa ban, suggesting that it would be resolved soon but offering no promises on the detainees.“We will cooperate if their demands meet the rules of our constitution,” Turkey’s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said at a news briefing Wednesday. “But we will not succumb to impositions, and we will reject any conditions that we cannot meet.”A senior presidential adviser, Ibrahim Kalin, later said that the visa ban would be resolved soon, but that details discussed would have to be referred back to Washington first.By the fourth day of Mr. Cohen’s visit to Turkey, there was no announcement of an agreement.An article on Saturday about a diplomatic dispute between the United States and Turkey misspelled the name of a Turkish city where a consulate employee’s wife and daughter were detained for more than a week. It is Amasya, not Asmaya.Go to Home Page »If you are an immigrant who won a diversity visa, we would like to hear about your experience.Submit your answers in the form below. Your name and comments may be published, but your contact information will not. A reporter or editor might contact you to learn more about your story.First and last preferred, please.Thank you for your submission.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Go to Home Page »I’m a high skilled immigrant from a populous country waiting to get my green card for the last seven years. I serve American people in a rural under served area. And there is this guy who got lucky via ‘diversity lottery program’. High time America shed identity politics and reward the talent and performance.Karl, CaliforniaAnother reader’s letter to the editor, offering a different take on the visa lottery, landed in our inboxes Thursday. The letter’s author, Livia Ungur, told us that she was an emerging filmmaker who had won the diversity visa lottery, too, and urged us to listen to people like her.We asked our readers who had experience with the lottery to tell us about the program, and how, if at all, they thought it could be improved. We heard from about two dozen readers. Here is a selection of the responses, which have been edited for length and clarity.In the early years of the program, many lottery winners were Irish, because the lottery had been designed to revive dwindling European immigration.I’m from Ireland. My uncle applied in the early 90s. The late 80s were very grim here, lots of unemployment. In my first year in college we learned that only one graduate had got a job the year before. We were educated for emigration, mostly the U.K. I just chose the U.S., loved the idea of the place.I do not really think the diversity visa was ever abused. I know illegal Irish dodged tax, simply because they had no way to pay. Legals never messed about, there really was no abuse among legals.I’m back home in Ireland. Lost my job in N.Y. after 9-11 and the dot com crash. Got offered others but couldn’t settle so we came home.Aidan O’Connor, IrelandNow, about half the winners are from Africa.I immigrated from Nigeria to the United States in 2007 having won the DV lottery visa. Prior to that, I had made a trip to the United States as a practicing visual artist. My experience of winning the lottery visa was life changing because I also coincidentally won a three month African arts fellowship at the UCLA at the same time.Previously, I graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Fine arts in 1986 and was a cartoonist and illustrator at the Daily Times of Nigeria before leaving for a stint in advertising. In 1996, I decided to to engage myself as a full-time studio artist and painter.Winston Salem, N.C.To be elible for the lottery, applicants must have a high school education or its equivalent, or two years of work experience. But some have much more.I am originally from Venezuela. I applied for the DV lottery over 12 times before being selected. When I was selected I was living in the U.S. with my wife (also Venezuelan), we both had H1-B visas. By that time, we had already been in the U.S. for seven years. We came initially with student visas and we both completed Ph.D.s in chemical engineering. Being selected for the DV saved us a lot of time, effort, money and uncertainty in getting our green cards (as compared with going through an employment based process).Simon Albo, Evanston, Ill.I’m from Indonesia. I was already here on a student visa then work visa H1-B. I had been working in a software/tech company. I could only get my H1-B visa renewed one more time, then I need a company to sponsor my green card. As my first H1-B was near expiration, I won the lottery (diversity visa). So my company decided to help process the green card instead of renewing my H1-B. Win-win situation for us.Inge, Pewaukee, Wis.I’m from New Zealand, by way of Australia (where I was working at the time). Life was good. But I wanted to chase career opportunities in America, switch up my lifestyle and enjoy a different cultural immersion.Pat Rowley, Brooklyn, N.Y.I’m from Australia — I always wanted to move to NYC, so the DV Lottery was a no-brainer, and it seemed to be common for Australians to be selected. I wasn’t living through any hardships, but wanted to come to the U.S. to pursue career advancement.Benn Finn, New York, N.Y.I’m originally from France. I entered the lottery in 2015, won in 2016 and got my green card in June of this year. The application itself is very simple and requires only a name, basic demographic information and a recent photo. However, once I “won” and received a lottery number, I had to provide the same documentation as any other green card applicant.This includes past employment for the last 10 years and all addresses since I was 16. I had to provide copies of all visas and passports used to enter and leave the U.S. and dates for those trips, as well as copies of all supporting visa documentation for my student and work visas. I had to submit transcripts and copies of diplomas from my undergraduate and graduate programs, copies of my tax returns for the last three years, six months’ worth of paystubs, multiple versions of similar forms asking for demographic, work, residential information for different time periods.I was also fingerprinted by DHS and had to get a medical exam, including a blood test, verification of a list of vaccines and a TB test. I don’t remember if I also had to provide a urine sample.After all this, I had an interview with a USCIS officer, who asked me a lot of questions and verified that my answers matched those in my forms and generally asked me about why I wanted to get a green card and then I waited for the FBI background check to be done and everything to finish being processed.Gaelle Sabben, Seattle, Wash.But in 2007, the report said, the Government Accountability Office found no evidence that diversity visa winners posed a threat.All the readers who wrote to us defended the program, but some also proposed modifications.I’m originally from Morocco. I won the DV in 2005 and came to the U.S. in 2006. It’s actually pure luck for me because I was studying my last year in nursing school when a friend of my family applied online for almost every person he know. My name was the only one chosen in the lottery.I would definitely recommend making it a merit based at the selection stage. So instead of just asking people to enter the basic information in the system, they should add fields that ask about education and work experience and also some basic English questions.Also, given how much our world changed post 9/11, I would recommend some psychology and ideology tests and questions just make sure the person is ready to simulate and blend in and also open to other cultures and believes.Hoda A., Albuquerque, N.M.An earlier version of this article misstated the gender of a reader commenting on the diversity visa lottery program. The reader, Livia Ungur, is a woman, not a man.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Go to Home Page »ISTANBUL — The United States said on Sunday that it was suspending nonimmigrant visa services at its diplomatic facilities in Turkey after the arrest of a consulate employee, prompting Turkey to halt visa services in America.The United States Embassy in Ankara, the Turkish capital, issued a statement from the United States Mission to Turkey saying that recent events had forced it to “reassess the commitment of the government of Turkey to the security of U.S. Mission facilities and personnel.”The Turkish Embassy in Washington responded with a similar statement late Sunday, saying it would “reassess the commitment of the government of the United States to the security of Turkish mission facilities and personnel.” It said the measures would apply to e-Visas, visas issued at borders and visas in passports.Turkey’s official Anadolu news agency reported that he was accused of communicating with former police chiefs in a 2013 corruption inquiry, 121 people involved in the attempted coup and hundreds of people using an encrypted mobile messaging app. The United States Embassy said it was “deeply disturbed” by the arrest.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The American statement said the suspension of nonimmigrant visa services was “effective immediately” to minimize visitor numbers to the United States Embassy and Consulate for now. The suspended services will affect visas for business people, tourists, medical patients, students, journalists and treaty trader, as well as diplomatic and official visas.Relations between Turkey and the United States have been tense over disagreements about Syrian Kurdish fighters, whom the United States backs in the war against the Islamic State. Turkey considers them a terrorist group and an extension of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, which has waged an insurgency within Turkey for more than 30 years.Go to Home Page »Omar Salinas has Temporary Protected Status, which is granted to U.S. immigrants from countries crippled by disaster or war. The Trump administration has announced that it will end the program.LOS ANGELES — Nearly 200,000 people from El Salvador who have been allowed to live in the United States for more than a decade must leave the country, government officials announced Monday. It is the Trump administration’s latest reversal of years of immigration policies and one of the most consequential to date.Immigrant advocates and the El Salvadoran government had pleaded for the United States to extend the program, as it has several times since 2001. A sense of dread gripped Salvadorans and their employers in California, Texas, Virginia and elsewhere.“We had hope that if we worked hard, paid our taxes and didn’t get in trouble we would be allowed to stay,” said Veronica Lagunas, 39, a Salvadoran who works overnight cleaning offices in Los Angeles, has two children born in the United States and owns a mobile home.The Trump administration has said that hundreds of thousands of people who were granted temporary protection from deportation in 2001 must leave.And despite its name, the administration says, the Temporary Protected Status program, known as T.P.S., had turned into a quasi-permanent benefit for hundreds of thousands of people.The Department of Homeland Security said that because damaged roads, schools, hospitals, homes and water systems had been reconstructed since the earthquakes, the Salvadorans no longer belonged in the program.“Based on careful consideration of available information,” the department said in a statement, “the secretary determined that the original conditions caused by the 2001 earthquakes no longer exist. Thus, under the applicable statute, the current T.P.S. designation must be terminated.”The ending of protection for Salvadorans, Haitians and Nicaraguans leaves fewer than 100,000 people in the program, which was signed into law by President George Bush in 1990.It provides temporary lawful status and work authorization to people already in the United States, whether they entered legally or not, from countries affected by armed conflict, natural disaster or other strife. The homeland security secretary decides when a country merits the designation and can renew it for six, 12 or 18 months.There is no limit to the number of extensions a country can receive. Countries that have received and then lost the designation in the past include Bosnia and Herzegovina, which endured a civil war in the 1990s, and Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia during the Ebola crisis. El Salvador was one of the first countries in the program because of its civil war; that designation expired in 1994.The administration is giving Salvadorans in the program until September 2019 to get their affairs in order. After that, they no longer will have permission to stay in the country, forcing them into a wrenching decision.Ms. Lagunas said that she would remain in the United States illegally, risking arrest and deportation. But she would lose her job of 12 years without the work permit that comes with the protection. Her family would lose medical insurance and other benefits.“There is nothing to go back to in El Salvador,” she said, speaking in Spanish. “The infrastructure may be better now, but the country is in no condition to receive us.”With his protected status, Carlos Jiron, another Salvadoran, started a small contracting business and won bids for big jobs, including to paint federal buildings in the Washington area.“We have built a life here,” said Mr. Jiron, 41, who lives with his wife and two American-born children in a four-bedroom house they bought in Springfield, Va.He will have to decide whether to take his children to El Salvador, where he says they would not maximize their potential and would face safety threats; leave them with guardians in the United States; or remain in the country at the risk of arrest and deportation as one of the millions of undocumented immigrants.His 14-year-old daughter, Tania, a fan of Disney movies and hip-hop music, said she could not fathom starting over in El Salvador. “This is where I was born and am supposed to be raised,” she said.In 2016, the final time, the government cited several factors, including drought, poverty and widespread gang violence in El Salvador, as reasons to keep the protections in place.But officials in the Trump administration say the only criteria the government should consider is whether the original reason for the designation — in this case, damage from the earthquakes — still exists.Some lawmakers have introduced legislation to enable people with temporary protection to remain in the United States permanently. At the same time, instability in Venezuela has prompted some members of Congress from Florida to call for protected status for Venezuelans.The government of El Salvador had asked the Trump administration to renew the designation for its citizens in the United States, citing drought and other factors. Money sent home from Salvadorans abroad is a lifeline for many in the country, where four out of 10 households subsist below the poverty line, according to the World Bank. In 2016, the $4.6 billion remitted from abroad, mostly from the United States, accounted for 17 percent of the country’s economy.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.El Salvador’s president, Salvador Sánchez Cerén, spoke by phone with Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Friday to make one last plea. After Ms. Nielsen’s decision was announced on Monday, Mr. Sánchez posted on Twitter, calling it an 18-month “extension” of T.P.S. The post prompted a flurry of angry replies accusing him of trying to spin the bad news.Flor Mejia, who works in a day care center on the outskirts of San Salvador, said her family gets by with the help of money sent regularly by her sister and brother-in-law, who recently bought a home and have two children born in the United States. Her parents live in Chalatenango, a rural province in the northern part of the country, and are subsistence farmers, growing corn and beans for the family’s food supply.“It’s going to be very difficult for my parents, not having this income anymore,” Ms. Mejia said.Donald M. Kerwin Jr., the center’s executive director, called rescinding protection for Salvadorans a “baffling ideological decision that is extraordinarily destructive on all ends. They are deeply vested and embedded in the U.S.”“During hurricane recovery, I especially need those men,” Mr. Marek said. “If they lose their status, I have to terminate them.”“We need to put the ‘T’ back into T.P.S.,” he said. “It has to be temporary. This has gone on far too long.”Ron Nixon contributed reporting from Washington, Caitlin Dickerson from New York and Gene Palumbo from San Salvador.See More »Go to Home Page »“We did not start this problem,” President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at a news briefing during a visit to Serbia. “The problem is the United States itself.”Mr. Erdogan criticized the American ambassador, John R. Bass, for damaging United States-Turkish relations and said he should have resigned or been recalled after making such a unilateral decision. He said Turkish officials would not accept farewell visits from the ambassador, who was already scheduled to leave Turkey within days to become the ambassador to Afghanistan.“We do not see him as the U.S. representative in Turkey,” Mr. Erdogan said. Turkey has not withdrawn his diplomatic credentials, however.The State Department defended Mr. Bass on Tuesday, and said the decision to suspend visa services in Turkey had been cleared at the highest levels of the United States government, including the State Department and the White House.“Ambassador Bass has our full backing, not only here at the State Department but also at the White House as well,” said Heather Nauert, the department spokeswoman.The consulate employee was the second to be detained this year. A third is being sought, and the police have questioned his family members, according to Turkish news reports.Within hours, the Turkish Foreign Ministry announced similar measures in the United States, adding that the suspension included electronic visas and visas bought at the border, the way most tourists and other short-term visitors enter the country.On Tuesday, Turkey seemed to have suspended its electronic visa service for Americans. But officials said by early afternoon that no Americans had been turned back since none had arrived without visas.Western officials have accused Mr. Erdogan of detaining foreign citizens as hostages or bargaining chips in order to secure the extradition of Mr. Gulen, who has been in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since the early 1990s.Adding to the tensions, a Turkish court on Tuesday sentenced a reporter for The Wall Street Journal to more than two years in prison over an article she wrote about the Kurds, the newspaper said. The court deemed the article to be terrorist propaganda in support of a banned Kurdish separatist organization.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This ruling against a professional and respected journalist is an affront to all who are committed to furthering a free and robust press,” said William Lewis, the chief executive of Dow Jones, the newspaper’s publisher. “We call on those who share this commitment to make their voices heard.”Mr. Erdogan has used the attempted coup to rally political support and stir nationalist sentiment. Many of his supporters openly voice the suspicion that the United States had a hand in the plot and sought his downfall.Mr. Erdogan said on Tuesday that Gulen followers had infiltrated the American Consulate in Istanbul, and he questioned why the United States had tolerated them.“How did these agents infiltrate into the American Consulate?” he asked. “If these agents did not infiltrate the American Consulate, then who put them there? We need to focus on them. No state would allow such agents to threaten it from the inside.”Prime Minister Binali Yildirim set an anti-American tone in comments to party members during a weekly meeting in Ankara.Regarding the legal cases against the United States Consulate employees, he said: “So what? Is it a privilege to be in the U.S. mission? Should we get permission from those gentlemen?”Mr. Yildirim called for the diplomatic dispute to be resolved swiftly, through dialogue, but he also seemed to be rubbing salt in the wounds of the relationship. He told party members that around 80 percent of Turkish people do not like the United States. It had failed to cooperate with Turkey in the aftermath of the coup attempt and continued to support Kurdish fighters in Syria against Turkey’s request, he added.The American suspension of all nonimmigrant visas could affect over 100,000 Turkish citizens who travel to the United States annually, but Turkey is likely to suffer more: Roughly half a million Americans, business travelers and tourists, visit Turkey annually.But Turkey seems to have dialed back on its initial announcements that all visas would be suspended. Customs and Trade Minister Bulent Tufenkci said that no American without a visa would be allowed to enter the country, adding that none had tried so far. The airport police confirmed that no Americans had been turned back, since none had tried to arrive without visas.Trade would not immediately be damaged since a lot of commerce was conducted electronically these days, Mr. Tufenkci said.“The world is getting smaller now,” he said. “Everything is not connected to a visa.”Gardiner Harris contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »The terrorist came into our country through what is called the "Diversity Visa Lottery Program," a Chuck Schumer beauty. I want merit based.The lottery offers one of the fastest paths to legal permanent residency, often in less than two years. Some one million people have been awarded green cards through the program. Unlike other immigrants who gain admission, winners of the lottery do not need to have a close relative living in the United States, or any special skill.It is indeed a little like hitting a lottery. Some years, the program has attracted nearly 15 million applications, but no more than 50,000 visas may be awarded.During the monthlong application period each fall, which is currently in full swing, the lottery creates a craze in countries where it is regarded as a ticket out of poverty and to the American dream.In the 1980s, Irish-American congressmen led by Brian Donnelly, a Democrat from Boston, drafted a temporary measure, which passed in 1986. It provided an alternative path to a green card for citizens of countries “adversely affected” by the 1965 reforms, including Ireland.In 1990, Mr. Schumer was the lead sponsor of a bill that, among many immigration provisions, would transform the temporary program into a permanent one. The proposal was included in a bill that ultimately passed, and the lottery was born.In its early years, most winners were European, but now about half hail from Africa. In 2016, Nepal, Egypt and Iran had the most recipients, according to the State Department. Uzbekistan, where Mr. Saipov emigrated from in 2010, ranked fifth last year, with 2,378 recipients. Over all, the program contributes about 5 percent of the approximately one million legal immigrants that enter the United States each year.The program is available to people around the globe, except in countries that already have large numbers of citizens immigrating through traditional means, including Mexico, China and India.No special skills are required. A high-school diploma suffices. There is no limit to how many years a person can enter the lottery, but no country can account for more than 7 percent of all visas issued in one year.At a nameless internet cafe in the middle of Dakar, Senegal, on Wednesday, about a dozen people filled out applications with the help of the owner, Ouseynou Diouf. Clients paid him about $10, two to four days’ worth of wages, for internet access and his guidance.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many were repeat customers, including Faly Senghor, 28, a fashion designer who said he was applying for the second time. His dream, he said, was to add “a taste of Africa fashion” to the fashion industry in the United States.There is no charge to enter. But winners must pay several hundred dollars in fees.In the spring, a government computer in Kentucky selects 100,000 entries for green card processing. At noon on May 15, millions of people around the world will click on the State Department website to find out if they are among them.Even then, a visa is not guaranteed. Winners are interviewed, undergo background checks and medical exams. Many are eliminated for failing to meet requirements and deadlines.Ultimately, 50,000 people — lottery winners, as well as spouses and minor children they want to bring over — are awarded visas, which entitle them to move to the United States as legal permanent residents, or green card holders. Like most others with green cards, they may apply for citizenship after five years.“Thanks to the green card lottery I was able to stay here, go to law school, marry my wife, have four beautiful children and build a law practice,” said Mr. Vrapi, whose Albuquerque-based firm has grown from two to 23 employees in four cities and four states.During public remarks at a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Saipov was “the primary point of contact for — and this is preliminarily — 23 people that came in, or potentially came in with him.” Green card holders in the United States can sponsor immediate family members to receive their own green cards, but it was not immediately clear what the 23 number referred to.The program had been under scrutiny even before the terrorist attack.Critics have long contended that the program poses security risks, brings in low-skilled immigrants and is unfair because it enables people with no connection to the United States to enter more easily than others.Among supporters of the program are members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who highlight that it helps Africans who otherwise would not have the opportunity to come to the United States.The program has been marred by fraud. One year an applicant submitted more than 2,000 entries. Other winners have sold themselves for marriage to bring a spouse to the United States.Mr. Trump, who has championed merit-based immigration intended to attract high-skilled workers, said Wednesday that he backed a Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration and kill the lottery.He also attacked Mr. Schumer. While the senator sponsored what became the diversity visa program, he also was part of the so-called Gang of Eight, a group of Republican and Democratic senators whose comprehensive immigration bill in 2013 included provisions to eliminate the diversity visa program and allocate the visas by merit. The bill died amid Republican opposition in the House to the bill’s provision to grant a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.Mr. Schumer said on Wednesday that the president was politicizing the tragedy.Pres Trump, instead of politicizing & dividing America which he always seems to do at times of national tragedy, should bring us together.Another member of the Gang of Eight, Senator Jeff Flake, the Arizona Republican who has frequently criticized the president, defended Mr. Schumer.An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect date for certain comments and events. The applicants appearing in an internet cafe in Dakar, Senegal, and the comments by Senator Chuck Schumer, occurred on Wednesday, not on Tuesday.Liz Robbins, Linda Qiu and Jaime Yaya Barry contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »The man charged over the deadly truck attack in Manhattan on Tuesday entered the United States seven years ago through a lottery program intended to diversify the country.President Trump has pressed Congress to cancel the program. “Sounds nice,” he said. “It is not nice. It is not good.”On today’s episode:Background reading:If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Michael Schwirtz and Peter Baker contributed reporting.THE DAILY: Theo Balcomb, managing producer; Christopher Werth, senior producer; Annie Brown, producer; Lynsea Garrison, producer; Rachel Quester, producer; Sam Dolnick, contributing editor; Peter Sale, sound engineer. NYT AUDIO: Lisa Tobin, executive producer; Samantha Henig, editorial director.See More »Go to Home Page »Presidents are typically advised never to weigh in on pending criminal cases because such comments can be used by defense lawyers to argue that their clients cannot get a fair trial — especially when the head of the executive branch that will prosecute the charges advocates the ultimate punishment before a judge has heard a single shred of evidence at trial. But Mr. Trump has disregarded such advice in other instances, as well.“We have to get much tougher,” the president told reporters. “We have to get much smarter. And we have to get much less politically correct. We’re so politically correct that we’re afraid to do anything.”A moment like this was almost inevitable since Mr. Trump took office and sought to ban visitors from select countries with Muslim majorities. The terrorist attack in New York on Tuesday was the first by a foreign-born assailant on American soil since Mr. Trump’s inauguration, and few were surprised that he saw it as vindication for his tough-on-immigration approach.“President Trump, where is your leadership?” Mr. Schumer asked. “President Trump, instead of politicizing and dividing America, which he always seems to do at times of national tragedy, should be bringing us together and focusing on the real solution — antiterrorism funding — which he proposed to cut in his most recent budget.”At a news conference updating the public about the attack, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York chided Mr. Trump for his Twitter posts, saying they “were not helpful,” were not “even accurate” and “tended to point fingers and politicize the situation.”At his own public appearance later in the day, Mr. Trump took aim again at the diversity lottery visa program. “Diversity lottery — sounds nice,” he added. “It’s not nice. It’s not good. It hasn’t been good. We’ve been against it.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Responding to questions by reporters, he said he was open to transferring Mr. Saipov from civilian courts into the military system set up for foreign terrorists.“I would certainly consider that,” he said at the beginning of a cabinet meeting. “Send him to Gitmo, I would certainly consider that, yes.”Likewise, he vowed to toughen prosecution and punishment of terrorists without specifying how. “We need quick justice and we need strong justice, much quicker and much stronger than we have right now,” Mr. Trump said. “Because what we have right now is a joke and it’s a laughingstock.”No one arrested on American soil has ever been sent to Guantánamo Bay, and no one captured on foreign soil has been sent there since 2008. Transferring the suspect from New York would raise a host of thorny constitutional and legal issues, and Mr. Trump seemed to be speaking off the top of his head since federal prosecutors later moved to process the suspect in civilian courts.Asked later about his comment on Guantánamo, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, dismissed it as notional, saying that “he wasn’t necessarily advocating for it, but he certainly would support it if he felt like that was the best move.”By the end of the day, the president came under criticism from conservative allies for not declaring Mr. Saipov an enemy combatant, which would have allowed interrogators more freedom to question him without granting him the rights of a civilian defendant. “The Trump administration missed an important opportunity to send a strong message to terrorists and make America safer,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. “This is a huge mistake. Very sad.”In his remarks, Mr. Trump stressed that he wanted “merit-based” immigration, suggesting that Mr. Saipov was admitted without consideration about whether he had skills that could benefit the United States. In fact, the program requires applicants to have a high school education or be employed for at least two years in jobs approved by the State Department.Mr. Trump, who during last year’s campaign called for a complete ban on all Muslims entering the United States, has long sought to tighten the borders. He has signed several versions of the travel ban aimed mainly at predominantly Muslim countries even as courts repeatedly intervened.Uzbekistan was not among the countries targeted for “extreme vetting” but Ms. Sanders said “that may be something that’s looked at.”Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.Maggie Haberman, Eileen Sullivan, Ron Nixon, Michael D. Shear, Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said during a news conference in Moscow that the announcement was “another attempt to make the Russian citizen angry about the actions of the Russian government.”Mr. Lavrov said that he doubted the embassy’s justification for the cutbacks in visa services. “The American diplomatic school, diplomatic service, just as the Russian one, has great traditions and experience in preparing professional staff,” he said. He added that the American argument that its diplomatic workers cannot issue the same number of visas with reduced staff disrespected the “capabilities and possibilities of the American diplomatic service.”Mr. Lavrov said the ministry was studying the matter and would have a response at a later date.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Staff reductions have already begun, the embassy said.Under the new procedures, Russians in or near Moscow will have to wait as long as six months for a United States visa. For those in distant regions, especially the Far East, travel to America will be much more difficult, if not impossible.“They have direct flights to the U.S., but, of course, few people will want to travel over the whole country to Moscow to get a visa first,” Irina Tyurina, a spokesman for the Russian Tourism Industry Union told the Interfax news agency.Go to Home Page »Cubans have long regarded emigrating to the United States as something of a birthright derived from the privations they endured as a result of sanctions that Washington has imposed on Cuba for decades.The sudden suspension of legal pathways for Cubans to settle in the United States could set off a new migration surge, experts in both countries said, particularly if Cuba experiences an economic downturn.“It doesn’t give them an escape,” said Vicki Huddleston, a Cuba expert who ran the United States diplomatic mission in Havana from 1999 to 2002. “I think it risks another massive migration. You have folks who really want to leave, and at least that was a possibility while we were issuing immigrant visas.”Cuban Americans and their relatives on the island, many of whom have spent years waiting for visa interview appointments, were despondent after learning that consular services in Havana had been suspended.Irene Hierrezuelo, 50, had been so anxious in recent weeks about her Oct. 2 appointment at the embassy that she barely slept at night and took pills to steady her nerves. She was counting the days to be reunited with her daughter, Sulay Falconet, 30, who moved to Houston in 2012, and to embrace her 3-year-old grandson, Jeremy. The yearning to be reunited became unbearable, she said, after Ms. Falconet’s home was flooded last month when Hurricane Harvey battered Houston.“I feel so powerless,” Ms. Hierrezuelo said in a telephone interview over the weekend, breaking into sobs. “The only thing I have in life is my daughter and my grandson.”Ms. Falconet, who works at a car dealership in Houston, said she had been looking forward to holidays and birthdays once again being joyous events rather than reminders of her mother’s solitude.“To be honest, I’m very afraid,” she said. “No one gives you answers.”The news also devastated Carmen Miranda, a doctor who secured a United States visa in 2015 after defecting from a medical mission run by the Cuban government in Brazil. Ms. Miranda, 50, was allowed to sponsor her husband and younger daughter for visas at the American consulate in Rio de Janeiro.But her older daughter, Mariela Quiñones, had to return to Havana and wait a few years to join the family, because new American immigrants can simultaneously sponsor only children who are under 21. Ms. Quiñones was 23 when her parents and sister moved to Miami.“I don’t want to spend another birthday without you guys,” Ms. Quiñones told her mother in a text message over the weekend. “My 26th I’m already going to spend without you, but I don’t want to spend my 27th.”Ms. Miranda, a social worker who takes care of elderly people in Miami, sought to cheer up her daughter.“Sweetie, I don’t know about this one, but your next birthday we’ll spend sailing on a cruise or at Disney,” Ms. Miranda texted back. “You have to trust and think positive and you’ll see at any moment we’ll get the surprise.”Yet Ms. Miranda said the surprise they had long yearned for now felt more like holding out for a miracle. Before last week, she would call a phone number for visa inquiries each week for updates on her daughter’s petition. Officials kept telling her they were still processing cases filed in 2010, but while Ms. Quiñones was nowhere near the front of the line, at least the family knew the pipeline was flowing.“I can’t get over this,” Ms. Miranda said. “Imagine the pain a mother feels when she longs for a child.”Juan Manuel Iglesias, 53, can relate. A Miami welder who has lived in the United States since 1997, he has spent four years trying to get a visa for his wife, Tania González Sánchez, 46, an optometrist from the central Cuban city of Cienfuegos. Immigration officials requested more evidence about the relationship after Ms. González had a visa interview in May 2015, but the couple has yet to hear back.“It’s been hard for both of us,” Mr. Iglesias said. “She always has doubts about whether I have another woman here. But we’ve stayed together because we’re in love.”The State Department has said that Cubans may apply for temporary visas, such as those issued to students and tourists, at other embassies. But it has offered no guidance to applicants for immigrant visas, which are generally issued in a person’s country of origin or residence.Carlos Alzugaray, a scholar and former Cuban diplomat who lives in Havana, said the Trump administration’s decisions threatened to derail the good will and trust that the Cold War antagonists had begun to rebuild since diplomatic relations were restored in late 2014.“It affects academic, cultural, educational and environmental exchanges,” Mr. Alzugaray said. “It’s like a furtive rupture in relations without closing embassies.”Ms. González lamented the effects that the latest geopolitical twist is having on people’s personal lives.“Those are problems between countries and governments that should not interfere in our marriage,” she said. “And yet the days pass and I don’t see a way to be reunited with my husband.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The State Department is giving immigration and consular officials new grounds to deny entry to visitors to the United States or to kick them out if they are already here.In a cable to American embassies around the world, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson wrote that visitors who require a visa before entering the United States must then follow through on their stated plans for at least three months. If in that period they do something they failed to mention in an interview with a consular official — such as marry an American citizen, go to school or get a job — it will be presumed that they have deliberately lied.That would make it difficult, if not impossible, for them to renew a visa, get a new one or change their status. And if they were still in the United States, it would make those visitors eligible for deportation.Changes of plans that occur after three months may still be problematic but are not presumed to be the result of “willful misrepresentation,” the cable said. Under previous rules, a change in plans was deemed to be misrepresentation only for the first month after arrival in the United States.“If someone comes to the U.S. as a tourist, falls in love and gets married within 90 days and then applies for a green card, this means the application would be denied,” said Diane Rish, the associate director of government relations at the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “This is a significant policy change.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2016, the United States issued more than 10 million visas, helping to support a large tourism industry. But the new rule does not generally apply to citizens of 38 countries — including most of Europe and longstanding allies like Australia, New Zealand and Japan — who do not need a visa or an explicit travel, business or educational plan before coming to the United States.Most people from the Middle East, Africa and much of Asia do need a visa, however, and consular decisions about who gets the precious documents are among the greatest sources of tensions between the United States and these nations. In some foreign countries, hundreds line up daily outside American embassies and consulates to apply.Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which generally advocates stricter immigration rules, said his group supported the new rule.“It’s an effort to prevent people from abusing the legal immigration process,” Mr. Mehlman said. “The burden of proof should be on the people who say their plans have changed.”But Ms. Rish said that a lot could change in three months for a young visitor, and that presuming that such changes arose from a deliberate lie is draconian.See More »Go to Home Page »Mr. Scharf, who led Visa from October 2012 to December 2016, will join the bank as chief executive immediately and assume the added role of chairman on Jan. 1, Bank of New York Mellon said.Gerald L. Hassell, 65, will continue to serve as chairman until he retires at the end of December, the bank said. Mr. Hassell has been Bank of New York Mellon’s chairman and chief executive since 2011.Before joining Visa, Mr. Scharf, 52, was a managing director of One Equity Partners, JPMorgan Chase’s private investment arm, and served as chief executive of its retail financial services business from 2004 to 2011.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I have long admired BNY Mellon and believe there is great opportunity to build on the momentum Gerald and the team have created,” Mr. Scharf said. “We will continue to put our clients first, remain a strong and trusted partner, and continue on our journey of defining ourselves as the premier technology platform our clients turn to for our capabilities, advice and leadership.”He was chief executive of Bank One’s retail division from 2002 to 2004 and chief financial officer of Bank One from 2000 to 2002. He served as chief financial officer of Citigroup’s global corporate and investment bank from 1999 to 2000 and was chief financial officer of Salomon Smith Barney and its predecessor company from 1995 to 1999.He is a director of Microsoft and chairman of the New York City Ballet.Go to Home Page »A group of six girls from western Afghanistan will be able to attend an international robotics competition for which they had spent months preparing after the United States this week reversed a decision to deny them entry to the country.The team, from Herat, the third-largest city in Afghanistan, is expected to lead a procession of teams from 157 countries into Constitution Hall in Washington on Sunday night, according to the event organizers.The girls, who are ages 14 to 16, had twice been denied visas, according to Joe Sestak, the former Pennsylvania congressman and Navy admiral who now is president of First Global, the nonprofit organizing the event. But thanks to the help of officials in Washington and, reportedly, the intervention of President Trump, they were ultimately able to secure entry. Another team, from Gambia, was also approved this week after an earlier denial.“Every team has now gotten through, whether it’s Iran, Libya, and even after the reinstitution of the executive order on travel, we still got Yemen and Syrian refugees through,” Mr. Sestak said, referring to the president’s ban on most visitors from six predominantly Muslim countries, including Yemen and Syria but not Afghanistan.Kawsar Roshan, a 15-year-old member of the Afghan team, said she had been working on robots for two years, making multiple machines, including a tricycle and a train. The team began its work at the start of the year and applied for visas in May and June, according to the team’s mentor, Ali Reza Mehraban.Over the past couple of years, as more Afghans have joined an exodus intensified by the country’s insecurity and economic uncertainty, obtaining visas has become much more difficult because of concerns that visitors would seek asylum. Many young Afghans, particularly those on student and visit visas, also cross the border to Canada, knowing that the asylum process is much easier there than in the United States.Mr. Sestak said that he did not know why the Afghan team’s visa applications were not approved, but that he suspected it stemmed from a backlog of requests or cautious officials concerned that they might overstay their visas.In the end, the girls were granted entry through “parole,” a process by which United States Citizenship and Immigration Services may temporarily authorize otherwise ineligible visitors on humanitarian grounds or because it benefits the public. Parole was requested because it would serve “in furtherance of U.S. foreign policy interests,” a spokesman said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.First Global was founded by Dean Kamen, the prolific inventor behind the Segway, to promote the value of education in science, technology, engineering and math. Next week’s competition, the inaugural First Global Challenge, was created to advance that goal.The teams will compete over several days in a game designed to showcase the role technology can play in water purification, a problem in many of the participating countries. Robots will compete to collect clean and contaminated water “particles” represented by differently colored balls, and cooperation among the teams will also be rewarded throughout the competition, Mr. Sestak said.Mujib Mashal and Fahim Abed contributed reporting from Afghanistan.Go to Home Page »Richard David’s face is plastered around the Richmond Hill neighborhood of Queens. Along Liberty Avenue, on posters in the windows of sari shops and roti restaurants, Mr. David advertises his campaign for City Council, which, if successful, would make him New York’s first city councilman of Guyanese descent.It is also the community in New York City that could lose the most from a new federal effort to cut legal immigration in half, in part by limiting what are known as family preference visas, which go to the siblings, grandchildren, in-laws or adult children of United States citizens, as well as the spouses and children of legal permanent residents. That is exactly the kind of visa that allowed Mr. David to immigrate from Guyana in 1995, and that helped bring other members of his family into the country, too, as recently as last month.It is unclear if the bill will ever become law.Foreign-born Guyanese people make up a tiny share of the United States as a whole — just over 280,000 people in 2015, or 0.09 percent of the total population — but a hefty share of New York City’s immigrant population. More than half of the Guyanese population in the United States lives in New York City, according to city data, making it the fifth-largest immigrant population in the five boroughs and the second-largest in Queens.“Their propensity to come to New York City is very high,” said Joseph J. Salvo, chief demographer at the Department of City Planning. “And they are heavily reliant on family preferences — and reliant on categories that, under this proposal, would disappear. There’s no question that they would be affected in a dramatic fashion.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.To do that, it proposes narrowing the definition of immediate relatives, removing parents from the list and lowering the age of qualifying children to 18 from 21. Siblings of citizens, as well as the adult children of citizens or permanent residents, would no longer be eligible for family sponsorship. The total number of family preference visas would be cut to 88,000 a year, a 60 percent reduction from the current 226,000.Of New York City’s Guyanese immigrants who became legal permanent residents from 2002 to 2011, 45 percent were the parents, married children or siblings of citizens, or their spouses or children, according to the city’s data. If the proposed bill had been law at the time, nearly half of new Guyanese immigrants to the city would have been ineligible.For a community that relies upon tightly knit family units, where multiple generations live together in one house and grandparents often care for grandchildren while parents work, the constriction of family immigration would be especially wrenching.“In our Guyanese community, nuclear family is not tied down to mother, father, children,” said Deborah Assanah, 56, associate director of the Guyana Cultural Association. “We have like a village of family members who assist with raising the kids.”The Guyanese community, which includes people of Indian, African, Chinese and indigenous descent, has one of the highest rates of female labor force participation among New York City immigrants, perhaps aided by the availability of extended family to care for young children, said Philip Kasinitz, a sociology professor at the City University of New York.And because many Guyanese immigrants send remittances to relatives at home, cutting off family immigration would effectively make immigrants responsible for financially maintaining two households, with no prospect of reunification, said Vishnu Mahadeo, president of the Richmond Hill Economic Development Council.Additionally, many Guyanese parents prefer for their children to come to the United States either as very young children or after they have completed their education, so that they can integrate more easily into American society or the work force, Ms. Assanah said. But that means many are older when they immigrate, making them targets of the new proposal. Ms. Assanah immigrated in 2008, sponsored by her husband, who is a citizen. A few years earlier, he also sponsored their twin daughters, who were 21 at the time — older than the proposed new cutoff.Many Guyanese had not yet focused on the bill. Vrinda Jagan, a lawyer in Richmond Hill who works on immigration, said that immediately after the November election, clients flooded her office with questions and pleas for reassurance that they would not be deported en masse. But nobody had asked her about the new bill, she said. And applications for family sponsorship have not flagged since President Trump’s endorsement of it.“I sent out a few this week,” she said. “They’re continuing to petition for their family members, and they’re petitioning for their spouses, their children, a lot of children over 21. That hasn’t changed.”The policy would be most devastating to people whose applications for family-sponsored visas had been pending for years, said Randy Capps, director of United States research at the Migration Policy Institute.Especially for those with lower priority cases, like siblings or married children, the wait can be 10 years or even more.At Singh’s Roti Shop and Bar on Liberty Avenue, Sandra, who asked to be identified by only her first name because she feared disrupting her immigration proceedings, said she had been waiting on family sponsorship for 12 years; she was in the United States on a tourist visa.She was being sponsored by her sister-in-law, who had submitted an application for her brother, Sandra’s husband. Under the current system, Sandra and her three children would be allowed to enter as well.If the bill were passed, Sandra said, “I would feel bad, because you wait so long.” Her children, who have never been to the United States, are eagerly awaiting the day the application is approved. “They’re so excited,” she said.See More »Go to Home Page »GUADALAJARA, Mexico — With his frequent refrains about Mexicans and the need for a wall to contain them, it’s no surprise that President Trump has made few friends in Mexico.Yet here in the capital of Jalisco State, sometimes referred to as Mexico’s Silicon Valley, people are practically celebrating him.“He’s helping us a lot!” Gov. Aristóteles Sandoval exclaimed. “He’s put us on the world’s agenda.”Mr. Trump’s plans, combined with an American political climate that has left many immigrants feeling less welcome, has cast a pall of uncertainty over the American tech industry, which relies heavily on highly skilled workers from abroad.But while entrepreneurs and executives in the United States are fretting, other countries — including Mexico, Canada and China — are salivating over the Trump administration’s rumblings.Silicon Valley’s loss, they say, could be their gain.And unlike the H-1B visa in the United States, there is no limit to the number of Canadian visas available.Beyond that, Ontario is in the early stages of preparing a social media campaign for technology executives around the world to sell the province as a place for investment.In Mexico, states with growing regional tech hubs, like Jalisco, have been redoubling their efforts to attract talent and investment in recent months, peddling a philosophy of openness that departs from what Mr. Sandoval called Mr. Trump’s “xenophobia” and “lack of global vision.”The officials herald Mexico’s proximity to Silicon Valley, its alignment with time zones in the United States and its lower cost of living. They are also sweetening the invitation with enticements like tax incentives and promises of full government cooperation.Even Mexico’s ambassador to India has echoed the pitch.China’s tech leaders have also been seizing on the opportunity created by Mr. Trump’s immigration policies.“China is shifting from attracting foreign capital to foreign talent,” Mr. Wang said. “The U.S. is losing out.”Among the Chinese voices leading the push is that of Robin Li, the chief of Baidu, China’s largest search engine.“Many entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley have expressed their concern that this will hurt America’s field of innovation,” Mr. Li said recently at China’s World Internet Conference. “I really hope that talent from all over the world comes to China.”President Emmanuel Macron of France has sought to throw open a slightly different door. When Mr. Trump announced that he was pulling the United States out of the Paris climate accord, Mr. Macron extended an unusual offer to Americans: “To all scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs, responsible citizens who were disappointed by the decision of the president of the United States, I want to say that they will find in France a second home.”These messages of welcome stand in contrast to the Trump administration’s tough approach to immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump says businesses use the program to avoid hiring higher-paid Americans, and his executive order instructed the agencies to ensure that visas were awarded to the most skilled, best-paid immigrant workers.A change could favor the biggest American tech companies, which tend to pay the highest wages. But it could hurt some of the biggest users of the H-1B program — the outsourcing companies, including several from India — that bring thousands of workers to the United States on lower wages to handle computing tasks for banks, health care companies and other firms.It could also hurt start-ups and smaller firms without the cash to compete on salaries.“People here are extremely nervous,” said Andreas Kraemer, managing partner of MITA Ventures, a San Francisco-based venture capital firm. “This whole area is driven by immigration.”The White House referred questions about whether the uncertainty surrounding temporary visas could shift jobs to other countries to the Department of Homeland Security. The department declined to comment on Tuesday.León David Pérez, president of Propulsar, a Mexico City-based company that develops tech start-ups and has an office in San Francisco, argued that Mr. Trump’s policies could jeopardize Silicon Valley’s culture of creativity.“When you want to spur innovation, the best way to generate it is to employ the greatest diversity of people,” he said. “That’s what’s being threatened with Trump’s policies.”The uncertainty in Silicon Valley — combined with the invitations from around the world — have already begun to lead some tech companies and entrepreneurs to rethink the gravitational pull of Silicon Valley.In 2003, Manuel R. Gutiérrez Novelo, a Mexican engineer, moved to Silicon Valley to develop TDVision Systems, a company specializing in 3D technology. He went on to develop a multipronged operation based in California, with offices in Europe and Asia.But in recent weeks, he uprooted his businesses and moved them back to Guadalajara, his hometown. Mr. Trump’s efforts to restrict immigration were a big reason, he said, calling them anathema to his company’s philosophy and a potential barrier to hiring foreign workers.“If I saw Donald Trump, I’d tell him he has lost my business,” he said.For decades, Jalisco was mainly a center for tech manufacturing. But as its talent pool has expanded, fed by highly regarded engineering programs at local universities, it has increasingly become a place for high-tech innovation.Andy Kieffer, an American entrepreneur who runs Agave Lab, a venture capital firm in Guadalajara, said that when he was seeking investors in Silicon Valley several years ago, he was waved off.“I couldn’t get anyone to look at Mexico,” he recalled. “They said, ‘Look, I don’t know anything about Mexico. It’s off my radar.’”But in the past several months, he said, interest among investors has shot up.In Canada, officials expect their new visa to give their tech industry a big boost. Not only is there no limit on the number of visas, but government employees have been hired to act as visa concierges to make it easier for companies.“It’s a huge advantage when you contrast it to what’s happening across the border,” said Stephen Lake, whose company, Thalmic Labs, produces devices that enable users to control computers through gestures.Sharoon Thomas, an Indian entrepreneur, last year began shifting his start-up from Mountain View, Calif., to Toronto, and officially made the move in May. Seven of his engineers are still working in the United States and other countries, but he plans to use Canada’s new visa program to bring them north.“Canada’s immigration policy makes you feel more welcome than the U.S.,” said Mr. Thomas, whose company, fulfil.io, designs software to manage inventories.Evan J. Green, an immigration lawyer in Toronto, said he was helping companies in banking, insurance and retail seek visas for employees.“These people have options,” he said. “This is the best and the brightest of the world. We want these people. This is good for Canada. Let’s keep the door open while they’re slamming it shut south of the border.”Kirk Semple reported from Guadalajara, and Ian Austen from Ottawa. Javier Hernández contributed reporting from Beijing, and Yang Xiong contributed research from Beijing.Go to Home Page »TLAPACOYAN, Mexico — Francisco Trujillo heads north each summer to do a job that few Americans want: a four-month stint operating carnival rides, mopping up vomit and sleeping in a cramped trailer with other workers.His annual journey to the United States was a routine shared by many in the shabby city of Tlapacoyan, about 190 miles east of Mexico City in the hills of Veracruz state, which supplies two-thirds or more of the 7,000 foreign workers hired by America’s amusement sector each year.This year, however, Mr. Trujillo, 32, is not selling tickets for the Super Shot vertical drop or doling out funnel cakes. Caught in a debate over how many visas the United States government should issue to seasonal workers, he is among thousands of Mexicans who are stuck at home, unable to get permission to work across the border.“They say we are taking jobs from the Americans,” said Mr. Trujillo, who has worked the last four carnival seasons in New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Carnival work is “really hard,” he said, adding, “Americans don’t want to do it.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The lack of visas has denied hundreds of families in the city an annual income that saves them from living hand-to-mouth and deepened the problems of a town struggling, like much of the state, with high crime rates. Of an estimated 4,600 to 6,000 residents who normally work the carnival season according to city officials and recruiters, about a third have been left behind.Instead, they are selling tacos and driving taxis, or working for just over $1 an hour in the tangerine and banana fields that surround the town. Some use Google Translate and WhatsApp to check their visa status with their former American employers.Mr. Trujillo is working as a driver for a construction crew, earning about $85 a week, less than a quarter of his carnival salary.He used savings from his time in the United States to buy a plot of land and build a one-bedroom house, even splurging on a $350 stroller for his son, now 22 months old. This year, however, “there will be no proper Christmas, no presents, no turkey,” Mr. Trujillo said. He abandoned plans to take his son to a safari park in nearby Puebla state for his birthday. “I can barely make it day to day.”Martín Peña, 34, who has spent two seasons with an Ohio-based amusement company but has not received a visa this year, said he had put off plans to buy a couch and a washing machine for his mother.From the United States, Mr. Peña sent home as much as $300 a week from his take-home pay of about $345, eating fried chicken or cooking eggs with chili and tomato to save money. He tore down the wooden shack where he lives with his parents on the edge of Tlapacoyan and built cinder block walls. He also paid for his father’s treatment for typhoid.As wrenching as it was to work far from his family, he said, managing without extra income was worse. “There is this anxiety that doesn’t go away,” he said.The visa problems began in March when the summer allotment of H-2Bs ran out, leaving some American businesses scrambling for people to clean hotel rooms, run Ferris wheels and fish for shrimp. Demand for visas was high, said recruiters and experts, and Congress did not renew a provision that had excluded returning H-2B workers from counting against the total quota of 66,000 visas, which is split evenly between summer and winter.But business owners who have been waiting to bring seasonal workers said the requirements to apply for visas were onerous and that the extra visas were too few, too late.Deborah Murray, one of the owners of Murray Brothers, a carnival company based in Cincinnati, said she had scaled back this year because she could not muster 30 reliable workers. She applied months ago for 12 visas for Mexican workers; she received four last week.“You can never really recover,” said Ms. Murray, who spoke by telephone from a Cincinnati church festival where she said she was running five rides instead of the usual 10. “I’ve been working since April and I’m a week from August,” she said. “The season is gone.”The visa program also ties foreign workers to one employer, making them susceptible to exploitation, according to Daniel Costa, director of immigration law and policy research at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. Some recruiters demand payment, a practice banned in the United States, which saddles workers with debt and may make them more acquiescent.Rather than having employers determine how many foreign workers they need, the government could set up an independent body to identify labor shortages and allocate visas, Mr. Costa said.“It’s only fair to set the system in a way that they are not exploited,” he said, referring to migrant workers. “Otherwise employers will try to keep wages down.”Most carnival workers in Tlapacoyan are hired through a pipeline run by James Judkins, a former circus performer and president of the JKJ Workforce agency, based in Harlingen, Tex., and his representative in Mexico, Victor Apolinar Barrios.Residents recruited at the office of Mr. Apolinar — who is currently mayor of Tlapacoyan — said they believed he had made a fortune charging workers fees to secure jobs. None would agree to be quoted, saying they were afraid of spoiling their chances of getting work in the future.Arthur N. Read, general counsel of Friends of Farmworkers based in Philadelphia, who filed the complaint, said the settlement covered fees paid by workers to the union; a second settlement to cover backpay to workers is pending and could be far larger, he said.Mr. Apolinar did not respond to several calls seeking comment, and aides said he was absent when journalists visited the mayor’s office, despite indications that he was present. Mr. Judkins said that his organization was very careful to follow the law and make sure no worker was charged illegal fees.Despite accusations of underhanded or illegal practices by employers, several carnival workers who were waiting for visas this month said they enjoyed the carnival circuit.Yes, there were days that stretched into the wee hours, patrons who vomited on the Zipper (a ride that involves being spun upside down in cages) and the occasional racist outburst from a parent whose child was not tall enough to board a ride. But there was also the chance to learn English, pick up some trendy, hand-me-down sneakers and leave the violence of Mexico behind.Eduardo Torres, 25, who has worked two seasons for Murray Brothers in fairs across Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio, said he had never imagined traveling by airplane or visiting big cities. He marveled at what he called the “cool stuff” everywhere and picked up all sorts of used clothing. “It was a dream come true,” he said.For Mr. Trujillo, whose favorite job was serving lemonade and hamburgers and learning English in the process — “like a little school” — the carnival became a window onto a more promising existence.In the United States, said Mr. Trujillo, “if you dream about 15 things, you can buy five.”In Tlapacoyan, he said, you dream, too. But when you open your eyes, of the things you dreamed about, “not one of them is there.”See More »Go to Home Page »After a barrage of customer complaints, the First National Bank of Omaha said on Thursday that it would withdraw its National Rifle Association-branded Visa credit card.Several hours later, Enterprise Holdings, the parent company of three rental car brands, Enterprise, Alamo and National, said it was ending a discount program for N.R.A. members.“Customer feedback has caused us to review our relationship with the N.R.A.,” Kevin C. Langin, a First National Bank of Omaha spokesman, said in a statement. “As a result, First National Bank of Omaha will not renew its contract with the National Rifle Association to issue the N.R.A. Visa Card.”Mr. Langin declined to provide the contract’s expiration date, to say whether the card was already inactive or to describe what the move’s impact on cardholders would be.The N.R.A. did not immediately respond to a request for comment late Thursday afternoon.Many of the bank’s customers had used social media to threaten to stop doing business with the company if it maintained its ties to the firearms trade group.On Wednesday, a web page describing the card was taken down. A cached version of the website describes the card as “the official credit card of the N.R.A.” and offers a $40 credit with the first purchase made on the card.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“That’s enough to reimburse your one-year N.R.A. membership!” the page said.Visa, in a statement, said that it had no contractual or financial relationship with the N.R.A.“Visa co-branded cards do not represent an endorsement by Visa of that cause or organization,” the company said. “We strive to make our payment services available to all people in all places, for uses consistent with local, national, and international laws.”“We ended the discount for NRA members,” the message said. “This change will be effective March 26. Thank you again for reaching out.”Go to Home Page »“I am desperately needing help, but it is going to take me a long time to gather all the new stuff they’re demanding,” Sarah Diment, owner of the Beachmere Inn, an upscale seaside resort in Ogunquit, Me., said as she studied the requirements for the new visas. Still, she predicted, “those visas will be gobbled up.”Ms. Diment, who closed a section of her hotel earlier in the season because of a dearth of workers, has since relied on overtime and the good will of a limited staff.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She said she hoped to secure enough visas to hire six housekeepers and a cook; the season begins to taper off in September.Each year, the government makes available 66,000 H-2B visas, which are divided between the winter and summer seasons. The summer allotment has been quickly exhausted because Congress, concerned about the visa program’s impact on American workers, chose in December not to renew a provision that did not count workers who previously had H-2B visas against the quota. That decision halved the number of available visas.Congress then gave the homeland security secretary, John F. Kelly, the authority to release more visas, which a bipartisan group of lawmakers had been calling on him to do since May.“Congress gave me the discretionary authority to provide temporary relief to American businesses in danger of suffering irreparable harm due to a lack of available temporary workers,” Mr. Kelly said in a statement. “As a demonstration of the administration’s commitment to supporting American businesses, D.H.S. is providing this one-time increase to the congressionally set annual cap.”Before being granted a seasonal visa, businesses must show that they have tried to fill vacancies with domestic workers by placing s. They must also attest, under penalty of perjury, that their businesses will suffer permanent and severe financial loss if they are not allowed to hire foreign workers.“For some, it’s not enough and it’s way too late,” said Dan Kowalski, an immigration lawyer in Colorado whose clients include many landscapers. “For other employers, the attestation is too daunting.”See More »Go to Home Page »“We will be making our way back to Australia within the next two weeks,” she said in the post. “We cannot express how grateful we are for everything and every one of you beautiful beautiful souls.”Khaalid H. Walls, a spokesman for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, confirmed that an immigration judge on Wednesday had allowed Mr. Reid to voluntarily leave the United States, and he had been released from custody. He added that Mr. Reid’s case would be monitored to ensure that he leaves.Reached by phone for comment, Ms. Kancso declined to answer any further questions.The couple had raised $10,065 in 12 days. That money was at one point frozen as GoFundMe worked to verify additional information about the campaign. GoFundMe did not immediately respond to an inquiry on Thursday about whether the couple had been able to gain access to the funds.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“He’s just happy,” the brother continued.By the time the Canadian officials were through with them, Ms. Kancso said, Mr. Reid’s time had expired. He was arrested by United States customs officials and taken to a detention center in Buffalo, with a hearing set for May 10.Go to Home Page »Jon Benjamin, the British high commissioner to Ghana, described the men’s behavior as “completely unacceptable” and said that in some cases, “these behaviors may arguably be criminal in nature.” His complaints were made in a letter to Ghana’s speaker of Parliament that was leaked to the news media on Wednesday.The men were accused of falsifying visa documents and helping secure travel documents for family members who overstayed their visas. Each man faces a 10-year travel ban to Britain, according to the British authorities.Some African political and business leaders have received attention for long vacations in Europe. Some also send their children to elite schools there or travel for medical and cosmetic treatments.While campaigning for office, Ghana’s new president, Nana Akufo-Addo, like many candidates in the region, traveled to Europe and America to build up international support for his campaign.One of the legislators cited in Mr. Benjamin’s complaint, Richard Acheampong, is accused of securing a visa for a woman he said was his wife, saying she was to accompany him for a two-week vacation in Britain. The High Commission said the woman was still in Britain. Mr. Acheampong has not offered information to help authorities track her, according to British officials.The letter also asserts that another member of Parliament, Joseph Benhazin Dahah, initially applied for visas for a wife and niece, but when the application for his niece was denied, he applied to the Republic of Ireland from another country, changing the name of his wife and claiming the person he originally identified as his niece was his daughter.A third member of Parliament, Johnson Kwaku Adu, traveled to Britain last July with his wife and 16-year-old daughter for what was supposed to be a two-week vacation. He returned to Ghana after just two days, but his wife and daughter are apparently still in Britain. The High Commission has accused him of facilitating the transport of a minor who cannot be traced.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The former member of Parliament, George Boakye, has been accused of securing a visa for his daughter, who overstayed her visa for more than three years but was forced to return after the British authorities intervened.Visa fraud is common in West Africa, where citizens pay huge sums of money to people claiming to be visa contractors who can help them acquire visas to Europe and the United States. Some even sell their homes to pay middlemen, who disappear with the cash.Ghanaian authorities in Accra, the capital, broke up a criminal ring last summer, arresting three men and seizing about 135 fake passports from 10 countries.“Looking at the quantity of passports we got from them, a lot of people have suffered from their hands,” said Timothy Yoosa Bonga, an assistant police commissioner in Accra, in a recent interview.Ghana’s minister of foreign affairs described the fraud accusations as “very serious allegations and unfortunate.” She said she would act on the findings once the speaker of the Parliament decided what to do.It is possible law enforcement authorities will become involved, said Kate Addo, a spokeswoman for Ghana’s Parliament.The scandal has stirred outrage among some Ghanaians and dominated the headlines here.“These M.P.s always bring shame to this country,” said Kwesi Dei, a resident in Accra. “They are paid very well, so it amazes me that some greedy ones are actually involved in visa fraud. The law should deal with them.”A photograph with an earlier version of this article was published in error. The photo was of President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria. While Mr. Buhari has traveled to Britain for medical treatment, he had nothing to do with the visa fraud case involving the Ghanaian lawmakers.Nana Boakye-Yiadom reported from Accra and Dionne Searcey from Dakar, Senegal. Eugenia Tenkorang contributed reporting from Accra.Go to Home Page »BEIJING — He has a lakeside villa valued at more than $3 million, two Mercedes sedans in the garage and a butler who fluffs his pillows and shines his shoes.But Liu Xiyu, a real estate executive in Beijing, still lacks the convenience he says he most wants in life: an American green card.Lawmakers are discussing the EB-5 program this week as they try to reach a deal on the budget and avert a government shutdown.“I’m trying to help America’s economy grow,” Mr. Liu, 47, said. “I don’t understand why anyone would be opposed.”Wealthy Chinese families, eager to move money out of China, have rushed to obtain green cards through the EB-5 program in recent years. In 2016, three-quarters of the roughly 10,000 investor visas issued went to Chinese citizens.The program, sometimes referred to as a “golden visa,” has helped attract billions of dollars of investment in hotels, highways, casinos and other projects in the United States.The program poses a dilemma for Mr. Trump, who has vowed to tighten immigration policies, but who is also eager to promote job creation.Since taking office, he has sought better economic relations with China after assailing the country during the presidential campaign. And as businessmen, Mr. Trump and his son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, embraced the EB-5 program to help finance real estate projects.In China, many visa applicants hope that Mr. Trump will examine the issue from a business perspective. They say they agree with the president’s call for stricter immigration policies, but they have said he should focus on illegal immigrants, not investors.Li Jing, an entrepreneur from Beijing who applied for an investor visa two years ago, said it was unfair that the United States let immigrants without authorization live in the country but turned away Chinese investors seeking visas through legal means.Ms. Li invested $500,000 in a highway project in Georgia, hoping to get a green card so she could join her son, who is studying at a military academy in the state. She said a booming real estate market in Chinese cities was making it easier for families to sell homes and use the money to invest.“The most important thing is education for the kids,” she said. “Chinese parents are willing to spend anything. They’re trying to give the next generation the best they can provide.”The program has been so popular that there is a backlog of more than 20,000 applications, resulting in delays of up to five years for green cards. Still, many Chinese say they are willing to wait.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wei Chi, 23, applied for an EB-5 visa two years ago after he was unable to secure a work visa through his employer. His parents in Guangzhou, a southern Chinese city, provided the $500,000 he needed to qualify for the program, which he invested in an apartment building in Washington.“All I can do now is wait,” said Mr. Wei, a management consultant who lives in New York on a student visa.Ms. Feinstein said the program suggested American citizenship was for sale. “It is wrong to have a special pathway to citizenship for the wealthy while millions wait in line for visas,” she said in a statement.Some lawmakers are concerned that the EB-5 program favors big cities at the expense of rural regions — an argument that Mr. Trump may be sensitive to, analysts say, given his political support in those areas.Rather than scrap the program, some have suggested raising the minimum amount required to invest, to $1.35 million from the current threshold of $500,000. Others support encouraging investment in rural areas by setting aside a block of visas for those who invest there.In anticipation of changes to the program under Mr. Trump, applications for investor visas in China have surged over the past several months, lawyers said.“Many are motivated by the fear that this will be their last chance to get a better deal,” said Gu Ouwen, an immigration lawyer in Beijing. Wealthy families also see the program as a way of shielding their assets from political winds in China, he added.Mr. Liu, the real estate executive, said he would continue to wait for a visa, though he said he worried about his 11-year-old son’s health and education in Beijing.“If President Trump really wants to put America first,” he said, “he has to let Chinese investors through the door.”Zoe Mou contributed research.Go to Home Page »Mackinac Island has a permanent population of about 500 people and just as many horses, but no cars. From May to October, the picturesque Michigan getaway relies on about 3,000 workers to power its economic engine: summer tourism.Historically, up to a third of those workers are foreigners, including Mexicans, Filipinos, Canadians and Jamaicans, who are hired on seasonal visas. But when many of the island’s business owners applied for those visas this year, they heard from the government that none were left.So at the Iroquois Hotel, a Victorian property on the waterfront where rooms command up to $1,200 a night, the owner is trying to figure out how to maintain its high standards without 30 Jamaican housekeepers. Other hotels are contemplating closing off whole sections. Even those who own the ubiquitous horses are wondering if they will have enough workers.“It’s urgent for us to get more visas to save the season,” Brad Chambers, who operates horse tours and taxis, said.The island whose selling point is being stuck in time is now suffering because it is stuck in the middle of a modern-day struggle over jobs and who should be doing them. So, too, are a number of the regional industries that define the American summer but have increasingly relied on non-American workers, from vacation spots in Maine and Minnesota to Gulf Coast shrimpers and the salmon fisheries of Alaska.The visas in question, known as H-2Bs, have an annual nationwide quota of 66,000, divided between winter and summer. But the summer allotment was exhausted quickly because Congress, concerned about the program’s impact on American workers, chose in December not to renew a provision that allowed workers who had H-2Bs in some previous years to work without being counted against the quota. That decision effectively sliced the number of visas by at least 50 percent.Congress has also given the homeland security secretary, John F. Kelly, the authority to release more visas, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers urged him in a May 12 letter to do so swiftly.Citing the importance of the $5.8 billion seafood industry to her state, Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, told Mr. Kelly during a recent Senate hearing that a “short-term fix is urgently needed.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kelly responded, “For every senator or congressman who has your view, I have another who says, ‘Don’t you dare. This is about American jobs.’ ”He added that he would probably release additional visas but did not specify when or how many. Even if he does, it would take two to four weeks for new workers to arrive because they must first pass an interview at an American consulate in their country of origin to obtain a visa.Unions, citing low wages, dispute employers’ assertions that they need the visas because domestic workers will not take the low-skilled jobs. In a 2015 report, the Labor Department’s inspector general expressed concern that employers were not trying hard enough to recruit Americans, as they are required to do before applying for the visas. The department has also documented cases of exploitation of foreign workers.Employers say that they would not use a program they regard as bureaucratic and expensive — they must pay fees for lawyers and for workers’ transportation to the United States — unless they had to. And they complain that they are falling victim to a dysfunctional immigration system, even as they do the right thing by hiring legal workers.Simply put, the companies say, Americans are not very interested in menial, short-term work.Eric Haugen, who runs a landscaping company in the Denver area, regularly posts ads in newspapers, on Craigslist and on street signs for positions that pay $14 to $25 an hour, with health care and benefits.“We hire every single person who shows up” for an interview, he said. “We are lucky if one reports to work.”Mr. Haugen has offered current workers $100 bonuses for referrals, to no avail. “The labor pool really doesn’t exist,” he said, which is why he turns to the H-2B program for part of the year. He has secured 32 visas for Mexican workers who arrived in April.In late May, dozens of employers phoned in to an emotional 90-minute conference call with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which administers the visa program.On the call was Andrea Hance, president of the Texas Shrimp Association. The industry, which has been buffeted by cheap Asian imports, is now “in crisis” because of the visa shortage, she said. Some 400 to 500 H-2B visa holders, mainly Mexicans, work on vessels that ply the Gulf of Mexico from mid-July to early November. Efforts to find Americans willing to spend 30 to 60 days at sea have failed, Ms. Hance said.During the salmon run, Alaska Glacier Seafoods in Juneau operates two shifts seven days a week to process the catch. The company typically relies on H-2Bs to fill 60 out of 200 positions but did not get any this year. “That may cause us to buy less fish, which would impact fishermen and their families,” Mike Erickson, the company’s president, said.He dispatched two human resources workers to recruit in other states. In a month, they hired only 12 people. “At the end of the day, a lot of Americans think working in a fishy, smelly environment is not the thing for them,” Mr. Erickson said.On Mackinac, Mr. Chambers, the horse-tour operator, said he had found five workers to fill 20 positions for which he sought H-2B visas.“We have done recruiting over the internet, in newspapers and in horse country to get people to come,” he said.His great-great-grandfather wrote a bill in 1898 banning cars, giving the island in Lake Huron its vintage appeal that draws a million visitors annually.The 393-room Grand Hotel, the setting for the 1979 movie “Somewhere in Time,” starring Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour, has been hiring seasonal foreign workers for decades. “Without them, we would be looking at changing our entire business model,” Jennifer King, general manager of the property, said.The hotel got the visas it needed. Other businesses on the island have not been as lucky.Phil Harrington, the sous chef at Yankee Rebel Tavern, has been coming in at noon instead of 3 p.m. to make sure preparations are complete before dinner guests arrive. “With the shortage of visas, it’s more stress on me and others who have to work longer hours to do more of the grunt work,” he said while chopping herbs, a task usually relegated to foreign workers.Patti Ann Moskwa, the owner and a fourth-generation restaurateur, has been washing dishes herself.“This is a legal program to supplement American workers,” she said of the visas. “We aren’t taking jobs from anybody.”See More »Go to Home Page »The rules would make it harder for skilled migrants to work in the country. Mr. Turnbull said that the special category, the so-called 457 visa, would be abolished in favor of two new temporary visas requiring more work experience and, in some cases, greater English skills. Current holders of the visa, who number about 95,000, would not be affected.“We will no longer allow 457 visas to be passports to jobs that could and should go to Australians,” Mr. Turnbull said. “We’re putting jobs first, and we’re putting Australians first.”The prime minister said the changes would attract better-skilled workers and encourage the hiring of Australians instead of cheaper foreign labor.Join Times journalists as they shape a new project celebrating and examining Australia from a global perspective.Joanna Howe, an associate professor of law at the University of Adelaide, said that Australia was hewing to a similar argument.“That rhetoric is very consistent with the rhetoric from Donald Trump around protecting American jobs and also from Theresa May’s government in the United Kingdom post-‘Brexit,’ ensuring that U.K. workers get first access to jobs,” she said.The 457 visa in Australia was expected to bolster the country’s economy by enlisting foreign workers to fill skill shortages. “The scheme has blown out significantly from its original numbers,” Dr. Howe said. “It’s being used in occupations where Australian graduates are struggling to find work — occupations like accounting and teaching and nursing. There have been concerns around exploitation of the 457 visa holders but also around whether Australian workers are getting first access to jobs.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Far-right parties like One Nation and left-leaning labor unions have expressed concerns about the number of temporary migrant workers in Australia. But Dean McEvoy, chief executive of the technology industry group TechSydney, said he was worried about the abolition of the program.“Any plans to cut back on the tech industry’s ability to bring in expertise from overseas before more Australians have been adequately trained in I.T. will only harm the industry and the future of jobs in this country,” Mr. McEvoy said.Workers in about 650 occupations can qualify under the 457 program in Australia. That will be reduced to no more than 435 under the new system.The new visas will be available in two-year and four-year versions, with the longer one being targeted to higher-skilled positions and requiring greater English proficiency.“Australia is the most successful multicultural nation in the world — we are an immigrant nation,” Mr. Turnbull said. “But the fact remains, Australian workers must have priority for Australian jobs.”Go to Home Page »Federal prosecutors are investigating Kushner Companies, the real estate firm owned by the family of Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, over its use of a program that grants visas to wealthy overseas investors.The authorities, in part, are looking into the role of Mr. Kushner’s sister, Nicole Meyer, according to a person familiar with the matter who confirmed the inquiry.The investigation centers on the real estate company’s use of the so-called EB-5 program, which offers visas to foreigners in exchange for a $500,000 investment. Critics say the program has weak oversight and lax rules.Mr. Kushner gave up his role running the family company in January. He still owns a significant piece of the business.In a statement, Kushner Companies’ general counsel, Emily Wolf, said the company was cooperating with the authorities.“EB-5 is a longstanding federal program that is frequently used by many large developers to raise funds and help create jobs,” Ms. Wolf said. “Kushner Companies utilized the program, fully complied with its rules and regulations and did nothing improper.”She added: “Neither Kushner Companies nor Nicole Meyer have done anything wrong in connection with the EB-5 program, and any suggestion to the contrary is simply false. The company and Ms. Meyer are cooperating with all legal requests in order to show that they did everything properly and clear up any questions.”Mr. Kushner has played an important role in United States-China relations, brokering meetings between Mr. Trump and top Chinese officials. About three-quarters of the roughly 10,000 investor visas issued last year went to applicants from China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Meyer apologized for mentioning her brother and did not appear at later events on the trip.This is not the first time Kushner Companies has turned to the program. In 2013, it raised $50 million in EB-5 financing for a Trump-branded luxury high-rise apartment building in Jersey City, which opened late last year.Created in 1990, the program was intended to provide financing for projects in areas with high unemployment. It has turned into a popular source of cheap financing for luxury developments.There are no federal standards to define the areas that qualify for the program. And developers have been accused of providing gerrymandered maps to qualify.Mr. Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, have divested a portion of his stake in the family real estate empire, including the Jersey City project. But he has retained ownership in the bulk of the business, including the building that had received EB-5 funds.Government ethics filings show the stake held by Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump in the family business and other investments is worth as much as $761 million to them.Blake Roberts, a lawyer who is advising the couple on ethics issues, has said that Mr. Kushner will recuse himself from matters concerning the EB-5 program.Qiaowai, the Chinese immigration company helping Kushner Companies find investors, did not respond to a request for comment.Javier C. Hernández contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »With Andrew Ross SorkinGood Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• So you want to be Deutsche Bank’s next C.E.O...• Investors are selling tech again.• Will Wall Street’s top regulator keep going after bad bankers?• More potential limits on gun sales• Facebook’s growing political troubles• Uber’s self-driving travailsYou survey the bank’s numbers to get a sense of the opportunities and challenges you’d face.Staring you in the face is the stock price, down nearly 30 percent this year. Ugly, but it could be a good entry point. It gives you time to try out some tough measures aimed at improving Deutsche Bank’s performance. Even if those moves produce near-term losses, the stock may not dive, given how far it’s already fallen.Then you look at the strength of Deutsche Bank’s capital, as expressed by a regulatory measure called the common equity tier 1 capital ratio. That’s at 14 percent, a solid-looking level, achieved in part by an €8 billion equity raise last year. In theory, you have something to spend on your chosen plans.But then you realize that Deutsche Bank’s share price is now back at the level at which the bank sold those shares. Shareholders must be livid. Not only that, Deutsche Bank’s stock market value is less than 40 percent of its net worth as stated on its balance sheet (its stock price is €11.30 and its book value per share is €30.16.) When a company trades at a hefty discount to its net worth, it either needs to raise a lot of new capital, which doesn’t seem to be the case at Deutsche Bank, or investors have serious doubts about the company’s business model.“So, I’ll rejig the bank’s business model,” you say to yourself, “that’s what new C.E.O.’s do!”You look for ways and stumble upon an unavoidable obstacle. Deutsche Bank is heavily dependent on Wall Street revenue, which can be far more unpredictable than revenue from other businesses. Last year, revenue from Deutsche Bank’s corporate and investment bank, which has struggled to keep up with its peers, accounted for 54 percent of the bank’s overall revenue. Compare that with JPMorgan Chase, whose investment bank accounted for a third of its revenue last year. And you are stuck with the Wall Street operations; no one wants to buy an investment bank with €1.2 trillion in assets.Maybe you can cut costs, another go-to tactic of an incoming C.E.O. Indeed, Deutsche Bank’s investment bank employees seem better paid than their counterparts at other firms. Going by a back of the envelope calculation, the unit’s compensation expense is equivalent to 44 percent of its revenue (excluding the interest the investment bank earns on its assets.) That’s higher than the 39 percent ratio for JPMorgan’s investment bank last year, and 41 percent for Goldman Sachs. Maybe you could slash the pay of bankers and traders.— Peter EavisThe roller coaster ride in tech continues.The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite tumbled nearly 3 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 fell 1.4 percent and 1.7 percent.Tech companies in the S.&P. 500 tech sector slid 3.4 percent, the steepest decline among the index’s 11 main sectors.Chip makers were among the hardest hit on the day. Shares of Nvidia dropped 7.8 percent after it said it was halting tests on self-driving cars.Nvidia’s slide weighed on the shares of rival chip makers. Micron Technologies fell 5.7 percent, and AMD dropped 4.2 percent.But semiconductor companies were hardly the only ones getting pummeled. The famed FANG stocks, among the biggest gainers over the past year, tumbled Tuesday. Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet all finished down more than 4.5 percent.Tuesday’s fall continued the recent volatility in American stocks, and specifically, the shares of tech companies. Enthusiasm about the technology sector had long propelled stock markets to new heights. But the specter of intensifying regulation of the industry has taken the sheen off. Last week tech stocks dragged the broader markets to their worst week in more than two years. The selling took a break on Monday as the S.&P. 500’s tech sector rose 4 percent pushing the index to its best day in almost three years.Contenders for the post should address one question: What will you do to clean up the culture at banks?William C. Dudley, the outgoing president of the New York Fed, had made improving the culture at the firms he oversaw a key initiative of his tenure of at the institution.Mr. Dudley had also pressed banks’ boards of directors to focus on ethical culture. On Monday, he said the boards had set up separate committees to focus on culture and conduct. “We’ve made part of the journey but I think more could be done,” Mr. Dudley said. Whether it will, depends on who steps into his shoes.— Peter EavisThe yield curve is near its flattest level since the financial crisis. The difference between the yields on the two-year and 10-year Treasury notes is at 0.52 percentage points, not far off its post-crisis low of 0.50 percentage points hit in January.That has some asking if the nine-year-old economic recovery is at risk.Since the end of World War II, no barometer has done a better job of predicting a recession than the yield curve. A flattening yield curve tends to indicate slowing economic growth in the near future. But what is more worrisome is if the yield curve goes beyond flattening and into outright inversion.The chances of a recession when the yield curve is flattening is just 20 percent, according to the calculations of Jim Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group. That jumps to 72 percent when the curve inverts.“Unless the yield curve actually inverts, however, the probability of recession remains quite low. While a flatter curve may have implications for the pace of future economic growth, it does not materially raise recession risk.”There is another reason not to be too concerned about a flattening yield curve, and it has to do with the actions of central banks around the world. The unprecedented stimulus from the Fed, Bank of Japan and E.C.B. have brought down long-term rates. That means the yield curve might not be the predictor it once was.A week after a self-driving Uber vehicle hit and killed a woman in Arizona, the fallout continues to spread.“Ultimately A.V.s will be far safer than human drivers, so this important work needs to continue. We are temporarily suspending the testing of our self-driving cars on public roads to learn from the Uber incident. Our global fleet of manually driven data collection vehicles continue to operate.”Nvidia is just the latest company to halt tests on self-driving cars in the wake of the accident in Arizona. Toyota, nuTonomy and Uber have all already done so.Roger Lanctot, an automotive technology analyst with Strategy Analytics, wrote:“Nvidia has no choice but to take steps in the context of the fear, uncertainty and outrage likely to be stimulated by a robot car killing a human being. This is precisely the type of event that is capable of slaying a nascent industry in the crib.”• Credit-card issuers and banks could give gun sellers who have announced restrictions on sales, like Walmart and Dick’s Sporting Goods, a special merchant category code. That could help financial firms decide with whom they want to do business.• Payment processors could geofence gun shows and enforce restrictions on transactions coming from those GPS coordinates.Here’s what Citi’s C.E.O., Mike Corbat, told Andrew about his firm’s actions:He said had expected to hear from customers who planned to “take their Citi card and put it in a drawer or cut it up” — and that Citi had received such responses. But ultimately “the positives have significantly outweighed the negatives,” he said. For every negative note, he said, he has gotten many more “saying that ‘I’m moving everything I have to Citi as a response to this.’”Facebook’s stock overall is headed for its worst monthly performance in nearly five years. Yet the company’s shares recovered from another beating, closing up slightly yesterday. And just two analysts have “sell” ratings on the stock, compared to 44 who have “buy” ratings.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Bankers and deal lawyers may want to send some of their bonus to Amazon this year. M.&A. activity is running at record levels and concerns about the e-commerce giant have played a role in driving a number of the largest deals.Amazon may not have been the main reason, but its impact on the pricing of consumer health products likely played a role.That partly helps explain why Novartis was willing to exit the business.So why was Glaxo willing to pay up for the business?Shares of Glaxo have gained 6.3 percent.Elsewhere in techGo to Home Page »LAGUNA NIGUEL, Calif. — The delivery trucks began arriving with their precious parcels before daybreak, lining up outside a massive government edifice that rises above Orange County’s suburban sprawl.On Monday, the starting gun went off on application season for skilled-worker visas, known as H-1B visas, which allow employers, primarily technology companies, to bring in foreign workers for three years at a time. For the last few years, the federal government has been so overwhelmed by applications that it has stopped accepting them within a week of opening day, hence the line of trucks trying to deliver applications before the doors close on the program for another year.Hailed by proponents as vital to American innovation, the program has also been criticized as a scheme to displace United States workers with cheaper foreign labor. President Trump has vowed to overhaul it, and lawmakers from both parties have drafted bills to alter it.This past weekend, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services announced a technical change that could make it harder for entry-level programmers to receive the visas, and on Monday, the Justice Department warned that it would investigate companies that it believed had overlooked qualified American workers.“The Justice Department will not tolerate employers’ misusing the H-1B visa process to discriminate against U.S. workers,” Thomas Wheeler, the head of the department’s civil rights division, said in a statement.Each year, 65,000 H-1B visas are made available to workers with bachelor’s degrees, and 20,000 more are earmarked for those with master’s degrees or higher.When the gates swung open at the government processing center here on Monday, the first truck in line, a FedEx rig, carried 15,000 packages, said a courier, Andrew Langyo.“We’re loaded, and we have more trucks coming,” said Mr. Langyo, who would return two hours later in the same truck with another haul.Last year, the government received 236,000 applications in the first week before deciding it would accept no more. A computer randomly chooses the winners.The average H-1B petition, a collection of forms and documents attesting to the bona fides of a job offer and the person chosen to fill it, is about two inches thick. But some files are six inches thick and weigh several pounds, according to Bill Yates, a former director of the Vermont Service Center, which also processes H-1B applications.Mr. Yates recalled some mishaps, like the time a driver bound for the center in Vermont drove 50 miles unaware that his truck’s back door had swung open, spilling its cargo onto the road.The visas are attractive not only to the companies that file the applications, but also to the workers themselves, who can become eligible for a green card while working on an H-1B.“In America, you’re in the center of new technology and cutting-edge changes in the I.T. industry,” said Mr. Nguyen, 25. “I would contribute directly to the company and to software development in the U.S.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2014, the last year for which information is available, just 13 outsourcing firms accounted for a third of all granted visas. The top recipients were Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and Wipro, all based in India.The companies, which subcontract their employees to banks, retailers and other businesses in the United States to do programming, accounting and other work, often inundate the immigration service with tens of thousands of applications.BitTitan, a growing company that hopes to hire 60 engineers in the next 12 months, is submitting six applications. “We are trying to fill specific positions around cloud and artificial intelligence,” the chief executive, Geeman Yip, said. “If we can’t fill them, our innovation suffers.”Several bipartisan bills in the Senate and the House seek to make companies give more priority to American workers before they fill jobs with H-1B visas. They also seek to raise the minimum pay for the jobs, which depend on skill level and location: A computer systems analyst in Pittsburgh, for example, must make at least $49,000 under current regulations. The theory is that higher pay will eliminate some of the rationale for importing workers.A draft of a presidential executive order on “protecting American jobs and workers by strengthening the integrity of foreign worker visa programs” was distributed widely in late January but never signed. Then, without warning, Citizenship and Immigration Services published a memo on its website over the weekend that could affect many applications.Specifically, companies seeking to import computer programmers at the lowest pay levels will have to prove that the work they perform qualifies as “specialty” labor, which is what the H-1B visas were created for. “There will be greater scrutiny of the role the company wants to fill,” said Lynden Melmed, a lawyer in Washington and a former chief counsel for the immigration service.The measure appears to be directed mainly at outsourcing firms, rather than the big technology companies, which tend to hire workers at higher skill and pay levels.In a statement, the National Association of Software and Services Companies, the main trade group for India’s outsourcing industry, said, “The H-1B visa system exists specifically because the U.S. has a persistent shortage of high-skilled I.T. talent.”The group said that its members followed all the program’s rules, and that the change would have little impact. “It is aimed at screening out less-qualified workers, whereas our members tend to provide well-credentialed workers to help U.S. companies fill their skills gaps and compete globally,” it said.Even before the memo and the Justice Department’s warning, fears about the future of the H-1B program were making this year more pressure-packed than most. “Just to make sure the petitions get in, almost every client demanded that theirs arrive on the first day,” said Greg McCall, a lawyer at Perkins Coie in Seattle who prepared 150 applications.Inside the federal building, a formidable structure that has provided backdrops for movies including “Coma” and “Outbreak,” the logistical dance unfolded over two floors. In the mailroom, about 40 people wearing blue gloves sat around tables opening packages that arrived nonstop in six-foot-high bins. In a huge warehouse, those same packages were separated according to whether the applicants had bachelor’s or master’s degrees.All told, 1,500 workers were involved, with a second shift expected to stretch past normal business hours.“This is the day we prepare for months and months in advance,” said Donna P. Campagnolo, the center’s deputy director.Trucks came and went all day, with some couriers, including from FedEx, staggering their deliveries to avoid having dozens of trucks backed up at the gate.Some smaller delivery companies received a piece of the action, too. One courier, Fernando Salas, pulled up in a red Suzuki station wagon stuffed with 10 boxes. “I have 109 envelopes,” he said. “That is all that fits in here.”It was all surprisingly low-tech for a program used primarily for high-tech jobs. Asked why the government had not digitized the process, Ms. Campagnolo said: “There’s obviously a lot of paper. There’s no denying it.”The biggest challenge, she said, is “trash overflow.”Vindu Goel contributed reporting from San Francisco, and Nick Wingfield from Seattle.See More »Go to Home Page »BEIJING — For Chinese citizens, American green cards can be notoriously difficult to obtain. But a Beijing immigration company called Qiaowai tells visa applicants of a secret weapon: It is working on behalf of a real estate firm owned by the family of President Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner.“They said the president would make sure it came through,” said Lu Ling, a technology executive in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou. “They said there was no chance it could fail.”They have helped find Chinese investors for many developers’ giant projects, including numerous luxury high-rises in Manhattan, a sprawling complex of apartment buildings in Brooklyn and a golf course in Boca Raton, Fla. Last year, they brought Rudolph W. Giuliani, New York City’s onetime mayor, to Beijing to speak to potential investors.Both firms have faced questions about their tactics.Qiaowai, with more than 400 employees at its headquarters on the 32nd floor of a high-rise, has trumpeted its political connections and played down the program’s financial risks. On the Kushner project, Qiaowai promised safe investments and “guaranteed” green cards, according to emails and text messages sent to clients and reviewed by The New York Times.U.S. Immigration Fund, based in Jupiter, Fla., has been accused by a former top executive of improperly using investor visa funds, and its chief executive has had legal troubles. The firm is a leading lobbying force in Washington, spending $820,000 since early 2015 to block changes to the EB-5 program’s rules.“No one at Kushner Companies was aware of any statement or guarantee,” Risa Heller, a company spokeswoman, said in response to questions about Qiaowai. “They did not and would not authorize that kind of language.” She declined to answer any questions about U.S. Immigration Fund.Both immigration firms this week removed from their websites descriptions of Kushner projects. “These are reports for investors and they are still up on the company’s password-protected investor portal,” said Stu Loeser, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration Fund.But the family’s Chinese representatives have repeatedly invoked Mr. Trump’s name as a selling point.Qiaowai, which has worked with the Kushners since 2013, describes itself in ads as the company Mr. Trump uses to “dig for gold.” Its leader, a former banker named Ding Ying, has tried to project an image of proximity to the president, chronicling on the company’s website her visit to Washington in January to attend his inauguration. She said she “exchanged a few words” with Mr. Trump.Connecting Qiaowai with the Kushner family is Nicholas A. Mastroianni II, the chief executive of U.S. Immigration Fund. A prodigious fund-raiser, he claims to have collected more than $1.7 billion in EB-5 money since 2010.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He travels frequently to China, reassuring Chinese investors worried about moving abroad, including helping their children adjust and throwing dinners. He also regularly goes to New York City, via private jet, where he has helped finance megaprojects for some of the city’s biggest real estate developers.The Kushner family has turned to Mr. Mastroianni at least twice to finance its ambitions. In 2013, it raised $50 million from 100 investors for a Trump-branded luxury high-rise apartment building in Jersey City, which opened last year. This spring, it announced it would seek the $150 million in EB-5 money for the latest Jersey City project, known as One Journal Square.The litigation was settled, and both sides declined to comment.In China, Mr. Mastroianni found a ready partner in Ms. Ding of Qiaowai, who built an empire on sending Chinese families abroad.Qiaowai, founded in 1999, has flourished as the ranks of wealthy Chinese have surged. Such firms often charge more than $50,000 as a finder’s fee, commissions that can add up to tens of millions of dollars on large development projects.Ms. Ding had a motto — “only genuine and safe investments” — and a vision of becoming a one-stop destination for wealthy families, helping them find schools, pay taxes and obtain insurance. When speaking at a fund-raising event in early May at the Ritz-Carlton in Beijing, with Mr. Kushner’s sister in attendance, Qiaowai representatives said that citizenship and getting money back were “highly guaranteed.”Ms. Ding’s close relationship with Mr. Mastroianni ensured an advantage in the Chinese market. Mr. Mastroianni routinely brought celebrities, including the golfer Jack Nicklaus, and former American government officials to China, helping burnish the credibility of Qiaowai.One such guest, Mr. Giuliani, promoted another developer’s Times Square project to potential investors at an event in Beijing last year. In a news release at the time, Qiaowai referred to itself and its Florida partner as the “two most powerful giants in the Sino-U.S. immigration industry.”Mr. Giuliani factored prominently in Qiaowai’s advertising; the company described him to Chinese audiences as America’s likely next secretary of state. His law firm, Greenberg Traurig, is the main lobbyist for a trade group fighting changes to the rules of the EB-5 program.Mr. Giuliani and his firm did not respond to requests for comment.Prominent former politicians are a staple for U.S. Immigration Fund and other EB-5 promoters. Former Gov. George E. Pataki of New York spoke alongside Mr. Mastroianni at an industry panel in Shanghai, and the former New York State economic development official Charles A. Gargano is the firm’s executive director.Mr. Mastroianni’s firm was at the forefront of efforts to stop an overhaul of the EB-5 program in 2015 and 2016, lobbying records show. The firm hired former Representative Ron Klein of Florida, now a lobbyist at Holland & Knight, to make its case on Capitol Hill and court investors in China. Mr. Mastroianni’s company also used another lobbyist, former Senator Alfonse M. D’Amato of New York.“We generally support the reforms relating to oversight, integrity and governance,” said Mark Giresi, the chief operating officer for U.S. Immigration Fund. “We oppose efforts to treat urban markets differently than rural markets.”For Kushner partners, the election of Mr. Trump represented an opportunity.Mr. Mastroianni’s son, Nicholas Mastroianni III, president of U.S. Immigration Fund, donated $100,000 to Mr. Trump’s inauguration.Qiaowai unrolled a series of s featuring Mr. Trump. “For a company that has cooperated with the Trump family,” said one ad, “there is no need to defend itself against rumors about fraud and questions like, ‘Is Qiaowai reliable?’”Javier C. Hernández reported from Beijing, and Jesse Drucker from New York. Michael Forsythe contributed reporting from New York. Zoe Mou and Cao Li contributed research from Beijing.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is making it tougher for millions of visitors to enter the United States by demanding new security checks before giving visas to tourists, business travelers and relatives of American residents.Diplomatic cables sent last week from Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson to all American embassies instructed consular officials to broadly increase scrutiny. It was the first evidence of the “extreme vetting” Mr. Trump promised during the presidential campaign.But Mr. Trump and his national security team are not waiting to toughen the rules to decide who can enter the United States. Embassy officials must now scrutinize a broader pool of visa applicants to determine if they pose security risks to the United States, according to four cables sent between March 10 and March 17.That extra scrutiny will include asking applicants detailed questions about their background and making mandatory checks of social media history if a person has ever been in territory controlled by the Islamic State.Mr. Trump has spoken regularly of his concern about the threat of “radical Islamic terrorism” from immigrants. But it is unclear who, exactly, will be targeted for the extra scrutiny since Mr. Tillerson’s cables leave that decision up to security officers at each embassy.There are legitimate reasons someone might be targeted, such as evidence of a connection to terrorism or crime. But advocates also said they worry about people being profiled for extra scrutiny because of their name or nationality.“This will certainly slow down the screening process and impose a substantial burden on these applicants,” said Greg Chen, the director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “It will make it much harder and create substantial delays.”“Consular officers should not hesitate to refuse any case presenting security concerns,” Mr. Tillerson wrote in the cables, titled “Implementing Immediate Heightened Screening and Vetting of Visa Applications.”“All visa decisions are national security decisions,” the secretary of state added.During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump accused the Obama administration of failing to properly screen people coming into the United States, a claim former officials in that administration reject. As a candidate, Mr. Trump vowed to ban all incoming Muslims until leaders could “figure out what the hell is going on.” Later, he backed away from a total ban on Muslims but promised “extreme vetting” of those trying to come to the United States.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Administration officials said the cables from Mr. Tillerson are among the actions being taken to carry out that memorandum. Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman, said the steps aim “to more effectively identify individuals who could pose a threat to the United States.”Most people seeking entry to the United States, for family, business or tourism reasons, must apply for a visa. Embassy officials can deny a visa for anyone suspected of being a threat, conducting fraud or planning to stay longer than allowed.The seven-page unclassified cable that Mr. Tillerson sent on March 15, which was provided to The New York Times, makes clear that the process of securing an entry visa is about to get harder and longer at diplomatic posts around the globe.“Consular chiefs must immediately convene post’s law enforcement and intelligence community partners” to develop what Mr. Tillerson described in the cable as “sets of post-applicant populations warranting increased scrutiny.”People targeted for increased scrutiny, Mr. Tillerson said in his cable, may be subject to a decision made only after more rigorous screening.The March 15 cable suggests areas of inquiry during a required interview, including: the applicant’s travel history, addresses and work history for 15 years; and all phone numbers, email addresses and social media handles used by the applicant in the past five years.A look at the process for getting a visa to visit the United States.Another cable, sent two days later, indicated that consular officers should not begin asking for the 15-year travel and work histories until the State Department received authorization for those questions from the Office of Management and Budget. It is unclear why that permission had not been granted.The State Department also urged its embassy officials to delay or reschedule interviews if an applicant was unable to provide all of the information demanded. And Mr. Tillerson acknowledged in the cables that the extra scrutiny would cause “backlogs to rise,” even as he recommended that officials should each interview no more than 120 visa applicants each day.Mr. Chen, of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, questioned how a single interviewer who conducts 120 interviews per day — at about five minutes per interview — could improve security for the visa process.“It’s highly unlikely they could obtain information that demonstrates whether someone is a national security threat in such a brief interview process,” he said.In addition to the new security protocols for embassies, the four diplomatic cables sent last week offer a view into how the administration hopes to enact the travel ban if the president ever gets the chance.The March 15 cable, which was sent before federal courts blocked the revised travel ban, increases scrutiny on people from the six countries in the president’s executive order: Iran, Yemen, Sudan, Syria, Somalia and Libya. It also includes a section calling for increased scrutiny for Iraqi nationals.For those from the six countries covered in the ban, the cable envisions a process for potentially granting a limited number of exemptions from the ban by issuing a waiver, but only after vigorous screening. Those people would be questioned about their past 15 years of travel and occupational history, as well as whether they have visited territory controlled by the Islamic State.A March 16 cable suspended “all enforcement” regarding the tougher scrutiny on the countries from Mr. Trump’s executive order.See More »Go to Home Page »Just hours after the appropriations measure was signed on Friday, the company run until January by Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and top adviser, Jared Kushner, was urging wealthy Chinese in Beijing to consider investing $500,000 each in a pair of Jersey City luxury apartment towers the family-owned Kushner Companies plans to build. Mr. Kushner was even cited at a marketing presentation by his sister Nicole Meyer, who was on her way to China even before the bill was signed. The project “means a lot to me and my entire family,” she told the prospective investors.The sequence of events offers one of the most explicit examples to date of the peril of the Trump and Kushner families maintaining close ties to their business interests and creates an impression they stand to profit off Mr. Trump’s presence in the White House. It also illustrates the problems of the so-called EB-5 visa program that prominent Republican and Democratic members of Congress want changed.Bipartisan critics in Washington say they want to revamp the visa program because it is often abused. It supports high-end luxury projects, like the Kushner family deal, instead of promoting job creation in rural America or distressed urban areas, as it was intended. It has also been criticized by federal regulators for insufficient safeguards against illicit money coming into the United States; in the case of one applicant, they found potential financial ties to a string of Chinese brothels.There is no assertion that Mr. Kushner broke any conflict-of-interest rule; but the law does not prevent his relatives from attempting to exploit those ties to benefit the family business.In fact, Kushner Companies — when Mr. Kushner was still at the helm — had received $50 million in EB-5 financing for a separate New Jersey project, a Trump-branded luxury high-rise tower in Jersey City that opened late last year.After a surge in attention to the topic over the weekend, a spokesman for Mr. Trump said on Monday that the president also endorses changes to the visa program, including perhaps increasing the price foreigners must pay to get the special immigration status. A White House statement said the administration “is evaluating wholesale reform of the EB-5 program to ensure that the program is used as intended and that investment is being spread to all areas of the country.”The statement also said that Mr. Kushner, who is married to Ivanka Trump, has recused himself from EB-5 related matters: “Jared takes the ethics rules very seriously and would never compromise himself or the administration.” In a statement from Kushner Companies, Mr. Kushner’s sister said it was not her intent to mention her brother as a way to lure investors.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But the matters involving Mr. Kushner, the White House and Kushner Companies are different. None of those previous presidential relatives took jobs in the White House while simultaneously benefiting from a multibillion-dollar business with international partners, who also stand to benefit from federal programs.Although Mr. Kushner has shed stakes in some of the company’s investments, he has retained most of his interest, as the main beneficiary of a series of trusts invested in the firm’s various projects. His stake, along with some other investments, is worth as much as $600 million, and possibly much more, according to a government ethics disclosure form made public by Mr. Kushner in March. But Kushner Companies has declined to make public a list of its partners.When it was created in 1990, the EB-5 visa program was intended to provide a new source of financing for projects in underserved areas, defined as places with high unemployment. But there are no federal standards for defining such neighborhoods. And developers often provide gerrymandered maps to qualify under the program.The Kushner project in Jersey City “is a textbook example of the abuses we have seen in the last six or seven years,” said Shae Armstrong, a Dallas lawyer who has joined with members of Congress, including Senators Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Ms. Feinstein, to call for changes in the program.That part of Jersey City, less than three miles from Manhattan, is hardly an economically depressed area, and a luxury apartment building is going to create few permanent jobs. “And it is why other towns in rural America are not getting EB-5 money,” Mr. Armstrong said.Indeed, in the Beijing presentation delivered by Mr. Kushner’s sister, the firm cited the high household income of the majority of the residents — between $100,000 and $200,000 — in the Trump-branded building that has already received EB-5 financing.The $1 billion Kushner project at the center of the current controversy is a set of high-rise towers — including 1,730 apartments and 89,000 square feet of retail space. The company is seeking $150 million through the EB-5 program.Traditional lenders can charge interest of 12 to 18 percent, said Gary Friedland, a professor at New York University who has written extensively about the program. But EB-5 loans can wind up costing developers as little as 4 percent, he said.“The immigrant investor’s primary purpose is to secure a visa, so they accept minimal interest, as low as half a percent,” Mr. Friedland said.For developers, said Steve Yale-Loehr, an immigration law professor at Cornell University, the appeal of EB-5 can be summed up in two words: “Cheap money.”Eric Lipton reported from Washington, and Jesse Drucker from New York. Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting from Beijing.Go to Home Page »Supported byBitsWhile campaigning for president last year, Donald J. Trump promised changes to the H-1B visa program that brings skilled foreign workers to the United States. A critique of the program is that it can be used to replace American workers with cheaper foreign labor. Critics say that Indian outsourcing firms, in particular, use it as a shortcut to make low bids on contracts.President Trump has yet to unveil a significant revamp of H-1Bs, but over the last few days, his administration has started to make changes.These steps will most likely fall short of dramatically affecting big tech companies like Google and Facebook. But the industry is still anticipating an executive order from Mr. Trump that could create additional changes to how H-1Bs and other work visas are issued.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSRight now, United States citizens generally do not need visas to enter any of the union’s 28 member nations, but citizens of five of those nations — Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Poland and Romania — need visas to travel to the United States.The Parliament’s resolution was nonbinding, and the commission said Tuesday that it would not comply with the request. Doing so “would be counterproductive at this moment, and would not serve the objective of achieving visa-free travel for all E.U. citizens,” it said.The commission added, “On the contrary, it would immediately result in retaliatory measures by the U.S., leading to the visa requirement being imposed on all E.U. citizens.”Dimitris Avramopoulos, the commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship, said that inflaming the dispute would not help because the union was making progress on visa issues through diplomacy. He noted that Canada had agreed to stop requiring Bulgarian and Romanian visitors to obtain visas as of Dec. 1.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Our continued engagement and patient diplomatic contacts over the past year have brought tangible results already with Canada, and we are committed to proceeding in the same way with the U.S.,” Mr. Avramopoulos said in a statement. He added, “We are on the right track.”The commission said it would report to the Parliament again on the matter by the end of the year.European impatience with the American visa policy has been building for years. The commission considered proposals a year ago to end visa-free entry for Americans and Canadians, but it concluded then that doing so would “have significant negative impacts in a wide range of policy areas, notably on external relations, trade, tourism and the E.U.’s economy.”The commission said on Tuesday that in recent months, “political and technical contacts have been stepped up” with the new American administration. Mr. Avramopoulos said he had discussed the matter with the Homeland Security secretary, John F. Kelly, in Washington on Feb. 8. The subject also came up when American and European officials met in Malta in March.The United States’ Visa Waiver Program currently allows most citizens of 38 countries to visit for business or tourism for up to 90 days without obtaining visas.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.In the vote on Thursday, European lawmakers played tit-for-tat in their dispute with the United States, demanding restrictions on American travelers unless the Trump administration lifts travel requirements for citizens of Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Poland and Romania.“You’re talking about citizens from countries, like Poland, with a major diaspora” in the United States, Claude Moraes, the British lawmaker who leads the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs in the European Parliament, said in a telephone interview on Friday. “You’re really seeing frustration and anger, and without any timetable, this is becoming increasingly seen as second-class treatment.”The European Parliament also warned that it could take the further step of bringing the European Commission to court if it continues not to stand up to Washington.“Only when the U.S. fully gets that the European Commission is going to act are we going to get any kind of timetable from the United States,” Mr. Moraes said. “At the moment, the U.S. just believes the commission is not going to act but stick with the pragmatic argument that doing so would create damage that’s just too great.”He continued, referring to Washington, “There’s no denying heightened concern about the current administration, but that’s more about uncertainty about who’s in charge and how the State Department is working.”Mr. Moraes said the civil liberties committee could still recommend within two months that a case against the commission’s failure to act be brought to the bloc’s highest tribunal, the Court of Justice of the European Union.“It’s a question of using what options are open to us,” he said, explaining the possible resort to litigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the vote on Thursday, the Parliament gave the European Commission two months to take legal measures to impose visas for American travelers to the European Union unless the Americans offered reciprocity to all citizens from the bloc.The Parliament’s measure was approved in a show of hands and was not expected to worsen the standoff with the United States. But in the event that the court in Luxembourg were to rule in favor of Parliament, the commission might be forced to impose visa requirements on Americans.The Trump administration, finding itself in a tit-for-tat battle over access, would then almost certainly do the same for travelers from the European Union.In 2014, the European Commission was notified that the United States and four other countries — Australia, Brunei, Canada and Japan — were failing to provide reciprocal, visa-free travel to citizens of some European Union countries.Margaritis Schinas, the chief spokesman for the commission, appeared to tamp down any expectations that it would impose visa requirements on Americans within two months, as outlined in the Parliament resolution. Instead, he said he advocated “continued engagement and patient diplomatic contacts” with Washington.The commission will issue a progress report on discussions with the United States, he added, but not before the end of June.Michael Wolgelenter contributed reporting from London.Go to Home Page »In Coudersport, Pa., a town in a mountainous region an hour’s drive from the nearest Walmart, Cole Memorial Hospital counts on two Jordanian physicians to keep its obstetrics unit open and is actively recruiting foreign specialists.In Fargo, N.D., a gastroenterologist from Lebanon — who is among hundreds of foreign physicians in the state — has risen to become vice president of the North Dakota Medical Association.In Great Falls, Mont., 60 percent of the doctors who specialize in hospital care at Benefis Health System, which serves about 230,000 people in 15 counties, are foreign doctors on work visas.Small-town America relies on a steady flow of doctors from around the world to deliver babies, treat heart ailments and address its residents’ medical needs. But a recent, little-publicized decision by the government to alter the timetable for some visa applications is likely to delay the arrival of new foreign doctors, and is causing concern in the places that depend on them.In Montana, for example, where nine counties do not have a single physician, it means Benefis Health does not know when a Romanian doctor trained in kidney transplants will arrive. The health care company spent months recruiting the doctor and had been expecting her in July.“Our health system already has nine months invested in her, and now we have no idea when she can start,” said Erica Martin, who recruits doctors for the company.The doctor, Silviana Marineci, who is completing a fellowship at the University of Minnesota, said she was frazzled by being in limbo.“I won’t have an income, I don’t know if I will afford rent, I don’t know where I will be,” she said. “It’s insane.”Companies using that option, the government said, have effectively delayed visas for others who did not pay the extra fee.A spokeswoman for the immigration agency, Arwen Consaul, said in a statement that the measure was necessary to “work down the existing backlogs due to the high volume of incoming petitions.”H-1B recipients also include foreign physicians who practice in places shunned by American doctors for personal and professional reasons.About 25 percent of all physicians practicing or training in the United States are foreign, but in some inner cities and most rural areas, that share is significantly higher.There were 211,460 international medical graduates practicing in the United States in December 2015, according to the latest data available from the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates.Senators Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat; Susan M. Collins, Republican of Maine; and Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota, have urged the agency to continue premium processing.“Slowing down this successful two-decade-old program and the doctors it brings to rural areas will hurt families across North Dakota and rural America,” Ms. Heitkamp wrote in an email.It was a North Dakota senator, Kent Conrad, who in 1994 proposed to relieve a shortage of doctors by tapping foreign physicians who have completed medical education in the United States.His program waives the requirement that foreign doctors who graduate from residency programs in the United States return to their home countries for two years before working here. It lures such graduates to practice in underserved areas by offering them the chance to apply for a green card to live permanently in the United States after three years.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The program must be reauthorized by Congress every two years. Ms. Klobuchar, who twice has introduced legislation to make the program permanent, plans to do so again in the coming weeks.Since the program’s inception, tens of thousands of foreign physicians in a variety of specialties have flocked to clinics and hospitals in Appalachia, the Mississippi Delta region, the Great Plains and elsewhere.Many of them, such as Dr. Fadel E. Nammour, the vice president of the North Dakota Medical Association, put down roots and never leave.“We provide not only the care but also our leadership,” said Dr. Nammour, who is now an American citizen. “The focus should be on making it easier to bring people in to cover the physician shortage we have.”The delay also could affect the roughly 400 foreign medical graduates who come each year to participate in residency programs at teaching hospitals. The doctors were matched on Friday for residencies starting July 1 across the country.“Everyone around the country will be in a mad scramble to figure out this visa situation,” said Michelle Larson-Krieg, the director of international student and scholar services at the University of Colorado in Denver, which usually takes 10 or 12 residents on H-1Bs each year at its Anschutz Medical Campus.The immigration agency said in a statement that applicants could still request an H-1B approval on an “expedited basis,” if they could prove there was an emergency or humanitarian justification.Immigration lawyers said that it was extremely difficult to meet that standard, and that they doubted whether the agency could handle a flood of such requests.“If they don’t have the manpower to do premium processing, I don’t see how they are going to do special requests,” said Andrea Szew, a lawyer in Los Angeles.In the meantime, hospitals and clinics are adjusting to the possibility of being without some doctors for a while. Ms. Martin of Benefis Health said the hospital would have to give other doctors additional shifts or hire costly temporary physicians, who are frowned upon because they cannot develop a rapport with patients during their brief stints or provide continuity of care.Ms. Martin said Benefis Health was also recruiting other foreign physicians who could end up in the same situation as Dr. Marineci. “The most problematic thing is the unknown” about when the doctors can start, she said.Rom Satchi, a Canadian who completed his pediatric residency at the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria, was invited for interviews at facilities in Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Pennsylvania and several other places desperate for a pediatrician.Ultimately, Dr. Satchi signed a contract with Mama Mia Pediatrics in northern Las Vegas, a working-class area that has been struggling to handle a swelling patient caseload. He agreed to start in mid-June.But now, it is uncertain whether he will be able to get his visa in time.“At this point, I have no voice,” said Dr. Satchi, who plans to return to Canada and wait, jobless, until the visa is approved. “I can’t do anything.”An article on March 19 about the effect a change in visa policy has had on foreign doctors in rural areas referred incorrectly to the number of such doctors in North Dakota. There are hundreds — not thousands — of foreign physicians practicing in that state.Go to Home Page »Supported byAfter recent policy reversals that have angered his populist base, Mr. Trump described the visa program as an initiative gone awry that has driven down wages for Americans. The order was a means to end the “theft of American prosperity,” which he said had been brought on by low-wage immigrant labor.Yet the order calls for a series of relatively modest steps, like a multiagency report on changes needed for the H-1B program, under which the government admits 85,000 foreign workers annually, many of them in the high-tech, industrial, medical and science fields. Collectively, the efforts outlined in the order could take years to carry out.The H1-B program has become a focus in the debate over the impact of foreign workers. Mr. Trump has criticized employers for abusing the program and using it to avoid hiring higher-paid American counterparts. He vowed to revamp its lottery-based selection process.The order, signed at the sprawling Snap-on tool factory here, represents a small win for bigger tech companies, which have been in pitched battles for those visas. Companies like Google and Microsoft, which rely heavily on high-skilled foreign workers, had worried that President Trump would make drastic curbs to worker programs that could cripple them.“I think people are cautiously optimistic that this will be O.K., and maybe even better,” said Tom Alberg, a venture capitalist at Madrona Venture Group, a Seattle firm that invests in high-tech start-ups.But the order would likely hurt the biggest users of the visa program, technology outsourcing firms that bring foreign workers to the United States to perform technical jobs, typically from India.On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump stoked outrage from his supporters with accounts of companies like Walt Disney forcing laid-off technical workers to train their overseas replacements.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump spoke in terms of an apple-pie populism that helped him pull off upset victories in November in Midwestern states like Wisconsin.H-1B visas “should include only the most skilled and highest-paid applicants and should never, ever be used to replace American workers,” Mr. Trump told a gathering of about 500 workers and local luminaries, including the White House chief of staff, Reince Priebus, who hails from Kenosha.On this point, many executives at American technology companies agree with Mr. Trump. They argue that they mostly apply for H-1Bs for workers when they can’t find qualified American workers, usually those with advanced degrees like a masters or Ph.D.In recent years, there has been so much demand for H-1B visas that the whole fiscal year’s allocation has run out in a few days in April, when applications are accepted. The visas are then awarded by lottery to qualified applicants. Some 600,000 to 900,000 immigrants are currently in the United States on H-1B visas, researchers estimate.Outsourcing firms — the top 13 of which accounted for a third of all granted visas in 2014, the last year for which information is publicly available — typically flood the system with visa applications. The top recipients were Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and Wipro, all from India.India’s leading tech trade group, the National Association of Software and Services Companies, said Indian companies were being treated unfairly. “We believe that the current campaign to discredit our sector is driven by persistent myths, such as the ideas that H-1B visa holders are ‘cheap labor’ and ‘train their replacements,’ neither of which is accurate,” the group said in a statement.Companies like Microsoft, Intel and Amazon are also big recipients. At least 15 percent of the American workforces of Facebook and the chip maker Qualcomm hold H-1Bs, according to the most recent documents the companies have filed with the Labor Department.“This does nothing,” said Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “Like all the other executive orders, it’s just words — he’s calling for new studies. It’s not going to fix the problem. It’s not going to create a single job.”Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat whose district includes Silicon Valley, said the issue of foreign workers was real, but dismissed the president’s order as poorly targeted and unlikely to achieve its desired result.“Half of the start-ups in Silicon Valley were created by highly skilled people from other countries,” she said. “I don’t think the president and his staff fully appreciates that fact.”In a briefing with reporters on Monday, White House officials said the “Buy American and Hire American” order would also overhaul federal procurement practices to increase the selection of products from American companies, especially in the domestic steel industry, which has faced stiff competition from China.One reform advocated by the Trump administration, which has drawn bipartisan support from Congress, would change the lottery system for awarding H-1B visas, giving extra preference to the highest-paying jobs — a proposal favored by many in the American technology industry.Representatives from Microsoft, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Google either declined to comment or didn’t respond to requests for comment.Blake Irving, the chief executive of domain name and web hosting firm GoDaddy, said he supported the idea of changing the system for issuing H-1Bs to give priority to higher-skilled workers. He said GoDaddy typically receives only about 20 percent of the H-1B visas it applies for.“If anything, it moves the policy towards something that’s preferential to the expert work force,” said Mr. Irving. “Anything that gets us closer to that is goodness.”But some smaller technology companies said they were concerned about the changes proposed by the Trump administration.Punit Soni, the chief executive of Learning Motors, a six-person company in Silicon Valley that is trying to apply artificial intelligence to health care, said the visa changes proposed by the Trump administration would hurt start-ups.Small companies cannot afford to pay high salaries and are already struggling to attract talent in a tight market, he said. A visa system that favors the highest-paid workers will steer immigrants only to already successful big companies like Google, his former employer.“We’re a small start-up. Everyone is getting way below-market average salary,” he said.Glen Thrush reported from Kenosha, Nick Wingfield from Seattle and Vindu Goel from San Francisco. Miriam Jordan contributed reporting from Los Angeles.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONS“This Israeli government has been narrowing the space for democratic activity and is closing Israel off to those who dare to criticize its activities,” said Sari Bashi, the group’s Israel and Palestine advocacy director.“Human Rights Watch is systematically biased against Israel,” said Emmanuel Nahshon, a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Affairs Ministry. “They are in fact in the service of Palestinian propaganda rather than being in the service of the truth and human rights.”After initial news media reports of the rejection, Mr. Nahshon said later on Friday that the government had decided that Mr. Shakir, an American citizen, would be granted a tourist visa and that it would consider an appeal to its denial of a work visa. Ms. Bashi said Human Rights Watch would appeal.Mr. Nahshon would not comment on a report from Ha’aretz that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who also serves as the foreign minister, had allowed for the appeal. The prime minister’s office did not respond to requests for comment.Omar Shakir, Human Rights Watch's Israel and Palestine director, reacted to the news that the Israeli government has denied his work visa, accusing the group of engaging in “Palestinian propaganda” on Friday.Ms. Bashi said Human Rights Watch relied on foreigners because most Israelis, like her, are not permitted into Palestinian areas, including Gaza.“If we are engaging in Palestinian propaganda, we are doing a lousy job,” she said. The only other countries that have denied the group such access, she said, are Cuba, North Korea, Sudan, Uzbekistan and Venezuela.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rights groups have complained that the Israeli government of Mr. Netanyahu has been increasingly hostile, with groups like B’Tselem and Peace Now, which monitor Israeli settlements and the conditions of Palestinians, coming under particular criticism.Last year, Israel passed a law imposing reporting requirements on groups that receive more than half their funding from foreign governments. Advocacy groups said the legislation amounted to intimidation, while supporters of the move said it was meant to prevent foreign meddling in Israeli affairs.Sergeant Azaria is the only member of the Israeli security forces to have been brought to trial on charges of killing a Palestinian, although more than 200 Palestinians have been killed since a surge of violence began in September 2015, according to the office of the United Nations high commissioner for human rights.“While the prosecution and conviction are very welcome steps towards accountability, the punishment — which is excessively lenient — is difficult to reconcile with the intentional killing of an unarmed and prone individual,” Ravina Shamdasani, a spokeswoman for the commissioner, said in a statement.“It also stands in contrast to the sentences handed down by other Israeli courts for other less serious offenses, notably the sentencing of Palestinian children to more than three years’ imprisonment for throwing stones at cars,” she added. “This case risks undermining confidence in the justice system and reinforcing the culture of impunity.”An article on Feb. 25 about the Israeli government’s denial of a work visa for an investigator for Human Rights Watch referred imprecisely to an Israeli law that imposes reporting requirements on some nongovernmental organizations. It applies to groups that receive more than half their funding from foreign governments, not “from abroad.”Go to Home Page »The father had worked for the American government in Afghanistan for a decade and received the visas based on his work.Federal officials said that they would meet with the family on April 5 to review their visa documents and that they would be free without “any limitation of their liberties” until then.“This is a real victory in terms of the government acknowledging that the family does not pose a threat,” said Mark Rosenbaum, a lawyer with Public Counsel, who helped with the case. “But we should have never had to go to federal court to make this happen. This is not a way to thank someone for their service.”The family’s release came just hours before a hearing before Judge Josephine L. Staton of Federal District Court. The judge issued a temporary restraining order Saturday night to prevent the mother and children from being sent to a family detention center in Texas and scheduled Monday’s hearing to discuss the case further.Although the family’s lawyers pressed Judge Staton to force federal officials to complete the visa inspection immediately, she declined to do so, saying that it was not clear whether the court had the authority and whether it was in the family’s best interest.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Judge Staton ruled that the federal government must notify the court and the family’s lawyers 72 hours before making any change in their case and asked for a report after the April 5 interview.Lawyers for the family say the father worked at an American military base in Kabul for about 10 years and was repeatedly a target of violence by the Taliban or other Afghan rebels. Lawyers have not released the names, citing potential danger for the family, which includes three sons aged 7 years old, 6 years old and 8 months old.Joseph Carilli, a lawyer with the Department of Justice, told Judge Staton that a visa did not guarantee entry into the country and that the federal government retains the right to question immigrants further upon arrival.“The government here swung and missed,” said Robert Blume, a lawyer with Gibson Dunn, who argued the case in court on Monday. “They should be saying, ‘We made a mistake, thank you and be on your way.’ Nothing about this process has been normal.”Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES — A federal judge has dealt another blow to President Trump’s executive order barring some foreigners from coming into the United States, in a ruling that added to the confusion over the legality of the immigration measure.Using more sweeping language than previous court rulings, Judge André Birotte Jr. of United States District Court here issued a temporary restraining order on Tuesday evening requiring the government to allow in people with valid immigrant visas from the seven majority-Muslim countries Mr. Trump sought to block.The judge’s order affects only people who are seeking to live in the United States permanently and are taking the first steps to becoming a legal resident. This does not include tourists or students trying to enter the country.The order came in response to a complaint filed on behalf of 28 people from Yemen — United States citizens and their family members who had remained in Yemen but later received immigrant visas. The visa holders have been stuck in an airport in Djibouti since President Trump issued his executive order on Friday, according to the complaint.A wide array of people are affected by President Trump’s order.Like in other rulings in New York and Boston, Judge Birotte wrote that the plaintiffs would likely succeed in court on the merits and that they would also “likely suffer irreparable harm” without an injunction. Yemen is currently embroiled in a civil war with civilians in danger.But unlike some other cases, Judge Birotte’s ruling seemed to apply throughout the country, not just to Los Angeles International Airport. And while other orders had blocked the deportation of travelers, Judge Birotte explicitly wrote that the government could not detain them or block their entry into the country.The ruling could affect hundreds of people who are in their home countries or stuck in airports in other countries, hoping that they would somehow be permitted to travel to the United States.While the A.C.L.U. has filed several complaints against the executive order, they are not involved in this case.“If you take all these orders together, they are just an overwhelming repudiation of the executive order,” Mr. Arulanantham, said. “Every court that has ruled on this has seen it as unconstitutional, so that is a strong sign that this is blatantly illegal. We very rarely get such uniform and swift action by the judicial branch for anything.”In the days since the executive order was issued, border officials and airline employees throughout the world have stopped people from the affected countries — Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — from boarding planes headed for the United States. The Yemeni plaintiffs also said in court filings that American officials had confiscated their passports, repeating similar complaints from other travelers in the last several days.Mr. Arulanantham said that while he believed the previous court orders had implied that United States officials should not prevent valid visa holders from getting on planes, Judge Birotte’s order should force the government to stop that practice.But even after a New York judge ruled that people with valid visas should not be sent back to their home countries, there were reports that it was continuing to happen. In many cases, travelers reported being held for 24 hours or more, far longer than a typical inspection to enter the country.It remains unclear how the Trump administration will respond to the numerous judicial orders issued in the last several days.Go to Home Page »As President Trump’s executive order seeking to keep many foreigners from entering the United States sowed widespread confusion throughout the immigration system and at airports around the globe, cultural figures and institutions were calculating how the new policies would harm their art and missions.“Scholarly exchanges and international collaborations are key to our ongoing work, and we are very concerned that a number of programs we have in place could be threatened, just at a time when the world needs more, not less, exchange and mutual understanding,” said Thomas P. Campbell, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.The executive order, which was signed by Mr. Trump on Friday, blocks entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It also suspends entry of all refugees for 120 days and bars Syrian refugees indefinitely. Artists — and citizens — from the affected countries legally residing in the United States said they did not dare leave for fear of being denied re-entry.He had planned to attend the Feb. 26 ceremony and to use the megaphone the Oscars provides to call attention to a visa ban he called “unjust.” But new regulations announced on Friday presented “ifs and buts which are in no way acceptable to me even if exceptions were to be made for my trip,” he said.Marcel Mettelsiefen, the director of “Watani: My Homeland,” an Oscar-nominated documentary, said the film’s Syrian protagonist, Hala Kamil, would not be able to travel to the Oscars ceremony because she has a Syrian and a German refugee passport.The film follows Ms. Kamil and her children as they seek asylum in Germany. “It is very sad she cannot come,” Mr. Mettelsiefen said. “She is the star of the movie.”Ms. Kamil has been a frequent visitor to the United States, even giving a speech on the plight of refugees at the United Nations in August.Hussein Hassan, the Kurdish director of the feature “Reseba — The Dark Wind,” which was to have its North American premiere at the Miami Film Festival next month, said he had withdrawn his visa application to protest Mr. Trump’s policy.The film’s producer and one of its screenwriters, Mehmet Aktas, said the movie, a drama about a bride-to-be who survives an attack by ISIS on her village, showed that not all Muslims are terrorists. Festival organizers have said they still planned to show “The Dark Wind.”“It shatters my heart,” Mr. Himberg said. He added that the program was supported by a grant from the Doris Duke Charitable Trust, and the Sundance Institute didn’t know what would happen if the artists the grant was intended to bring to the United States could no longer travel there.The ban is also expected to affect museums. Curators at the Metropolitan Museum of Art said the order could disrupt or limit its loans to and from the affected countries and would restrict travel by colleagues and artists to the United States for education, research, fellowships, workshops, conferences and other training. They said it might also scuttle their hoped-for archaeological surveys and excavations in partnership with Iraq and Iran, and a joint publication project on Nishapur with Iran.“It was one of the many contributions of Iraq to the world, and in this case, to democracy itself,” she added. “Where and how did things go so wrong?”A spokeswoman from the Los Angeles County Museum of Art said: “We have no idea yet how this might affect us, but we do have at least one important exhibition of art mostly from Iran that would be impacted by travel restrictions that would make it difficult to do research and work with artists and authors, as well as borrow works of art that would require couriers from collections in Iran.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.President Trump’s order has already complicated a coming production of “Hamlet” by Waterwell, a nonprofit theater in New York. One of the actors, Mohammad Aghebatian, an Iranian citizen who trained at Yale, is now in Iran and uncertain whether he will be allowed to return to the United States.“This is completely and utterly un-American,” said Arian Moayed, an actor who is a founder and an artistic director of Waterwell. “He doesn’t know what to do — we’re trying to find him a lawyer.”Shari Rezai, a concert promoter in Los Angeles who specializes in contemporary Persian music and brings artists from Iran and elsewhere to the United States, said she had six shows planned through June, and canceled all of them three days ago, when she heard about the impending ban. She worried that her seven-year-old business was now at risk.Lawyers are struggling to understand what the visa ban means. “There’s a lot in here that is subject to interpretation,” said Jonathan Ginsburg, an immigration lawyer in Virginia who specializes in visas for artists and performers. He said the language made clear that nationals from the seven countries “appear to be banned for 90 days, even if they have applied for and received a U.S. visa.”He added: “The flip side is that we may not appreciate just how broadly worded these things are until someone decides to interpret them more aggressively.”“I am stuck here. I can’t leave the country and as an artist it means I can’t make shows and present my works internationally,” he wrote in an email message. “This is such a mess.”Thomas Erdbrink contributed reporting from Tehran. Stephanie Goodman, Barbara Graustark, Randy Kennedy, Michael Paulson, Ben Sisario, Melena Ryzik and Liam Stack contributed reporting from New York.Go to Home Page »BAGHDAD — The Trump administration amended its visa ban on Thursday to allow emigration by the families of Iraqi interpreters who served the United States government and military forces deployed in their country.The order temporarily blocked all Syrian refugees from entering the United States and suspended visas for applicants from seven Muslim-majority countries, including Iraq. It applied to holders of so-called Special Immigrant Visas issued to interpreters who worked for the United States during its 2003-11 occupation, often at great personal risk, and to their families.In a statement about the change sent to The New York Times, a United States Embassy official in Baghdad said, “The U.S. government has determined that it is in the national interest to allow Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa (S.I.V.) holders to continue to travel to the United States.” Iraqis who have received the visas, the statement said, may use them, and the “U.S. Embassy in Baghdad will continue to process and issue S.I.V.s to applicants who are otherwise qualified.”For the family of a 37-year-old Iraqi who once worked as an interpreter for American forces, the news was a joyous surprise after nearly a week of upended travel plans. An embassy official called to inform family members that they were again permitted to fly to the United States.“I’m shocked all over again,” said the former interpreter, who asked to be identified only by his first name and an initial, Munther A., to protect relatives in Iraq.The travel ban has thrown the lives of many former interpreters in Iraq into turmoil. Even with valid visas in hand, some were refused entry at American airports and others were removed from planes scheduled to fly to the United States.There was also confusion because the executive order, at least initially, barred entry to Iraqis who held American green cards. Many of them, but not all, were eventually permitted to enter the United States.The Pentagon recommended that the White House exempt from the travel ban Special Immigrant Visa holders and others who had demonstrated their commitment to American military forces.Munther A. and his family were removed from a Turkish Airlines flight in Istanbul on Saturday just as they had settled into their seats for a scheduled flight to Kennedy Airport. They were forced to fly back to Baghdad, he said.Most Iraqis holding the special visas have sold their homes, cars and other possessions in anticipation of starting a new life in the United States. Munther A. said his family had been forced to find emergency housing with friends in Baghdad.Since 2007, the State Department has issued more than 1,700 Special Immigrant Visas to Iraqi interpreters and their family members.The embassy in Baghdad did not disclose the number of Iraqis affected by the change in the Trump administration’s visa ban. Only 19 such visas were issued to Iraqi interpreters and their families during the past three years, according to State Department figures.Mr. Trump said when he issued the executive order that it was intended to allow American officials to vet Iraqis and others more thoroughly. But the interpreters had extensive security vetting before they were permitted to accompany American forces. They spent years clearing more background security checks while applying for the special visas.Even after the phone call from the embassy, Munther A. and his family were initially turned away by airline officials in Baghdad on Thursday as they tried to board a connecting flight to Doha, Qatar. He called a telephone number provided by the embassy, he said, and the problem was resolved.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We’re getting on the flight now,” Munther A. said in a telephone interview from the Baghdad airport late Thursday afternoon.He said his 7-year-old daughter was in tears on Saturday because the canceled flight meant she would not be able to visit Disneyland, as her father had promised. “I told her she’s going now,” Munther A. said.Thousands of interpreters, known to the troops as “terps,” rode for years with American forces on combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. They were given American nicknames like Tony and Bobby and Max. They often wore scarves across their faces to mask their identities.They risked their lives as the eyes and ears of the American military in Iraq. They did far more than just interpret, guiding American soldiers and commanders through Iraqi politics, tribal disputes and social customs.Other Iraqis who assisted the American military or government in Iraq indirectly remained in limbo on Thursday. Many had received refugee visas to resettle in the United States with the assistance of the International Organization for Migration, but they were blocked by the travel ban this week.A 33-year-old Iraqi father of two who worked seven years for a contractor that supplied American troops said he and his family had been granted visas for relocation to Charlotte, N.C., after passing extensive security checks. They were scheduled to fly from Iraq to the United States on Thursday, said the man, who asked to be identified as Ahmed A.He was told by the International Organization for Migration this week that his flight had been canceled because of the travel ban. Having already sold his home and car and quit his job, he scrambled to find a place to live with friends in Erbil, Iraq.Ahmed A. said he had heard nothing from the International Organization for Migration as of Thursday. A spokesman for the organization in Iraq did not respond to a request for comment.There also was confusion on Thursday for Qusay Fawzi Ahmed, 38, a former military interpreter who moved to Tampa, Fla., in 2012, after receiving a special immigrant visa.On Saturday, Mr. Ahmed was awaiting a phone call from his fiancée, Marwa Nasr al-Din, who was flying to New York from Iraq with a valid visa in her passport. After years of waiting, she said, she received approval to join her fiancé.Mr. Ahmed, who works at Domino’s, said he was delivering a pizza in Tampa when his fiancée called him from Kennedy Airport. She told him she had been detained and ordered to fly back to Cairo, where her flight had originated, and then to her home in Erbil.“My fiancée is a 25-year-old girl — she’s not going to bomb anything,” Mr. Ahmed said in a telephone interview.Ms. Din said on Thursday that she had been unable to find out when, or whether, her visa would allow her to join her fiancé in Tampa.“Is this the freedom and democracy we have heard about in the U.S.A.?” she asked.Falih Hassan contributed reportingGo to Home Page »TEHRAN — Families, businesspeople, athletes and tourists from seven countries in the Middle East and Africa found their travel plans — and even their futures — in a state of suspension on Friday after President Trump signed an executive order temporarily barring thousands from obtaining visas to travel to the United States.Passport-holders from those countries, who have American visas but are outside the United States, will not be permitted to return.“We only want to admit those who will support our country and love deeply our people,” Mr. Trump said on Friday before signing the order at the Pentagon. “We will never forget the lessons of 9/11, nor the heroes who lost their lives at the Pentagon.”(The 19 hijackers implicated in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack came from Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. None of those countries will be subject to what Mr. Trump described as “new vetting measures.”)During the 90-day period, the Trump administration will assess if the foreign governments on the list are providing enough information about citizens seeking visas to enable the United States to assess whether they pose a terrorism risk. If the governments do not comply, they will be given 60 days to do so; failing that, their citizens will be barred from entering the United States.Government reaction to the order has been cautious. But there is little doubt that the demand for information will be a challenge for Iran, which sends far more people to the United States each year, around 35,000, than any other country on the list.While Iran willingly allows its citizens to travel to the United States, it is ideologically opposed to sharing information with Washington. But if it does not, many of its citizens will be cut off from visiting relatives who are among the estimated one million Iranian-Americans living in America.The visa ban will provide an early indication of where relations between Tehran and the Trump administration are headed, one analyst said.“Trump will regard the Iranian reaction as a test,” said Farshad Ghorbanpour, who is close to the government of President Hassan Rouhani. “If Iran doesn’t comply, they won’t do so either on other issues. We will see in 30 days.”Another analyst doubted the government would comply with the order.“We are not obliged to give information about our citizens to the Trump administration,” said Hamidreza Taraghi, considered a hard-liner. “Such a move would be unjustifiable.”In the United States, Americans of Iranian descent expressed shock and dismay at news of Mr. Trump’s impending policy change, and were particularly concerned about their relatives and friends in Iran.Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council, a Washington-based advocacy group, said many Iranian citizens with valid green cards and American visas were distraught. Those outside the United States are fretting they will not be allowed in, and those already in the country fear they will not be able to leave, even temporarily, because they will be barred from returning.“There is a sense of bewilderment, as well as a sense of injustice,” over why Iran was even included on the list of targeted countries, Mr. Parsi said. No Iranian has been accused of an attack on the American homeland. By contrast, he said, the Sept. 11 attackers included citizens from countries which are not on the list — and “the United States has produced more ISIS fighters than Iran has.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This is not about me or the Academy Awards, it’s about having a discussion about this decision,” Ms. Alidoosti said. “This is such a bizarre ban, it is uprooting people’s lives in ways not imaginable.”The order cuts the number of refugees to the U.S. in half and bars those from Syria.As there is no American embassy or consulate in Iran, Iranians must travel to Ankara, Turkey, Dushanbe in Tajikistan or to Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, to apply for a visa. The State Department says that more than 40 percent of all applications are rejected. There are numerous agencies in Iran and other countries that mediate and assist Iranians seeking appointments.“Let’s hope this is fake news,” said Ali Reza Falahati, who runs a mediation agency in Ankara. “People are constantly calling to ask us if their appointments are canceled. They paid visa fees, $160, and booked tickets and hotels. I just hope this will be all right.”One woman in Tehran, a 28-year-old restaurant manager, nearly broke down in tears when hearing news of the ban.She said she had been waiting for a green card and that she and her husband had been planning for years to move to Orlando, Fla., where her mother, father and brother live. They even postponed having a baby, she said, and now regretted having waited for so long.The effects of the measure were felt in Africa, too.Many people in Mogadishu, Somalia, used the same word to describe Mr. Trump. “He’s a dabaal,” said Guled Hassan, a Somali university student. “Dabaal” is the Somali word for a fool.On Thursday, Mr. Hussan and his friends, who were hanging out in a park near Mogadishu’s crumbling seashore, slurping mango shakes, were paying extra close attention to the news streaming into their phones. Just about all of them had heard that Mr. Trump might ban visas for Somalis.Just about all of them said they wanted to go to the United States, and they mostly agreed the visa ban was “stupid” and "unfair.”But the consensus was that Mr. Trump was punishing all Somalis for the potential misdeeds of a few. “He won the election by saying he would chase away black people,” said Bilal Guled Mohamed, a college student.Another young man, Abdul Karim Hilowle, asked, “What’s the difference between Somalis already in the U.S. and those who want to go now?”Thomas Erdbrink reported from Tehran, and Jeffrey Gettleman from Mogadishu, Somalia. Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New York.Go to Home Page »STARKVILLE, Miss. — Coming from an Iranian city of around 150,000 people, Amir Rezazadeh felt a little out of place when he arrived at Mississippi State University, more than 100 miles from any metropolitan area and deep in the heart of the Bible Belt.But he soon came to like the quiet surroundings, where there was little to distract him from his horticulture studies, and where there was already a group of Middle Eastern students and professors to make him feel welcome.Ignoring half-serious warnings that he could be converted, he even began spending time at the Baptist Student Union, where he honed his English, discussed Christianity and Islam, played games and watched movies, and forged friendships with some of the Mississippi-born students.“Some people say directly to you that it’s a good order,” he said, “that our country should have this order to ban terrorists.” He finds their position especially hurtful, he said, in light of his fears of what the order might mean for him and his wife, and roughly 80 other students from the seven countries.The move may be bringing to the surface hidden tensions between ambitious Middle Eastern students who have been welcomed to the United States with scholarships and job opportunities, and fellow students and other residents who believe the threat of terrorism necessitates a second look at who is let into the country.That was a different message from that of the governor, Phil Bryant, who has said there were “a lot of people overreacting” to what he believed was a reasonable pause in immigration from the seven countries.Many students and alumni, on Facebook and in public, have expressed support for Mr. Trump’s move. Zach Cooke, 21, an electrical engineering major from Amory, Miss., said that while the ban’s execution was poor, “With what’s going on at the moment, I think a limit on who can come into the country is not a bad idea.”At the same time, a vocal segment of the school and town — county voters went narrowly for Hillary Clinton in a state that was heavily pro-Trump — has expressed support for the affected students. At a vigil Wednesday night, about 250 people gathered on an open green near the football stadium, carrying candles and holding signs. “Immigrants make America great,” read one.One organizer, a veterinary medicine student named Anna Walker, said she was inspired by a photograph of a protest at Washington Square Park in New York. “I realized that we needed a show of support in smaller communities,” Ms. Walker, 26, said.Once known solely for its agriculture program — even today fans ring cowbells at football games, and prized herds of cows graze on campus pastures — Mississippi State has worked in recent years to excel in technology and engineering, recruited scientists from all over the world to its 21,000-student campus and attracted hundreds of millions in dollars in research money, much of it from the federal government.The foreigners who live and work here include many Muslims; an unprepossessing mosque operates in a converted house on a residential street, and there are regular gatherings for holidays like Nowruz, the Persian New Year.The executive order, signed Friday, barred immigration from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen for 90 days. It halted admission of Syrian refugees indefinitely and that of other refugees for 120 days. Though students from those countries can stay, for now, they fear that they cannot leave the United States because they would not be allowed back in, and they wonder how any new vetting procedures being considered by the Trump administration might affect their future studies and travel.“Most people are distracted from school,” said Erfan Alkamil, 25, a senior who received a scholarship from the Yemeni government. “Some have been watching the news all day long. They are waiting to read something that might change the situation, or at least make them comfortable.”Mr. Alkamil, like other Middle Eastern students, said they have generally found Mississippi State to be welcoming, even accommodating. His American friends assumed — correctly — that as a Muslim, he did not drink alcohol and now offer him juice instead of wine without even asking.Adjustments are needed, though; there is no halal food market, so Mr. Alkamil has learned to like Subway sandwiches, and group meals are often held in private homes. Several of the students said the hardest acclimation was to Southern accents.Negative interactions are rare, students said, but they happen. Kimia Mortezaei, 29, who just finished her Ph.D. in civil engineering, recalled how at the farmer’s market one day, an older woman stopped her to compliment her on her “beautiful” dress and asked where she was from. She replied that she was from Iran, and the woman asked what she planned to do after she finished her studies.“I said I prefer to stay here,” Ms. Mortezaei recalled. “She suddenly told me aggressively, ‘You have to return to your country because you endanger our safety, because you’re a Muslim and you’re a terrorist like ISIS.”What this stranger could not know, she added, was that she had left Iran precisely because she disagreed with Iranian politics. “I left Iran because of those problems, and now we are labeled a terrorist,” Ms. Mortezaei said.Even with his finely threaded statement, Mr. Keenum, the university’s president, has been criticized. This 1983 graduate’s Facebook response was typical: "President Keenum needs to stand up for the nation’s security.” (Mr. Keenum, through a spokesman, declined an interview request.)Outwardly, the campus remains a picture of idyllic detachment from the nation’s larger tumult. On Wednesday the Baptist Student Union held its weekly $3 lunch and prayer meeting. With dogwood and Japanese magnolia trees already in full bloom, many students were wearing shorts.An exception was one woman who made her way across campus dressed in a niqab — a head covering with only her eyes showing. The woman, who would not give her name but said she was from Saudi Arabia, a country not covered by the ban, said she was very anxious about her future in the United States and called the president’s move “against humanity.”Ashkan Khalili, 33, an Iranian about to graduate from his aerospace engineering doctoral program, is also beginning to fret. He will soon graduate from his doctoral program and his permit will expire. But he said he was hoping to stay and work in the United States, and repay the country for its hospitality. “Now the question is, do they want me to pay it back, or go back?” he asked.Vahid Daghigh, 32, a Ph.D. engineering student from Iran, said he suddenly found himself feeling jealous of international students not from the seven countries.“For sure, I will try to stay here,” Mr. Daghigh said. “But if not, I will go to Canada.”Doris Burke contributed research.Go to Home Page »PARIS — Sixty-five writers and artists have joined with the advocacy organization PEN America to send an open letter to President Trump, criticizing his executive order banning citizens from seven majority-Muslim countries from entering the United States and urging against further measures that would impair “freedom of movement and the global exchange of arts and ideas.”“Vibrant, open intercultural dialogue is indispensable in the fight against terror and oppression,” the letter reads. “Its restriction is inconsistent with the values of the United States and the freedoms for which it stands.”“Preventing international artists from contributing to American cultural life will not make America safer, and will damage its international prestige and influence,” it adds.The signatories are an international who’s who of the writing world, including Chimamanda Adichie, Martin Amis, J.M. Coetzee, Jonathan Franzen, Siri Hustvedt, Jhumpa Lahiri, Azar Nafisi, Orhan Pamuk, Philip Roth, Alice Sebold, Zadie Smith, Colm Toibin and Anne Tyler. Also attaching their names to the letter are the artist Anish Kapoor, the composer Stephen Sondheim, the musician Rosanne Cash and the photographer Sally Mann.“At a moment like this it’s important for the public that’s weighing out these different cases and policies to recognize the breadth of concern,” said Suzanne Nossel, the executive director of PEN America, which wrote the letter and plans to spread it on social media.George Packer, the author and staff writer for The New Yorker, said he was under no illusions about the efficacy of signing his name to a letter like this. “I don’t expect it to change any minds at the top of the Trump administration, but perhaps it will give heart to officials lower down, and to foreigners who wonder if America is losing what makes it great,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I’ve had enough refugees from banned countries staying in my own house to know that they’re exactly the kind of people we should welcome,” Mr. Packer added. “America’s openness to foreigners has earned us affection and respect around the world even in dark times. Why throw it away?”The novelist Rick Moody said he hoped the letter would help in “keeping the resistance alive.” “Or, ideally,” he added, “budging the needle on policy a bit.” And the writer Susan Orlean echoed that sentiment: “I think this is the time to be noisy — to be loud about disagreeing when it comes to matters of essential unfairness.”The cartoonist Jules Feiffer said he had signed the letter because at 88, “I’m too old to march.” He said he was keeping his spirits up. “Doctors say that enlisting in a fight over the life or death of this American nation affects the spirit like a miracle drug. I have never been more hopeful.”And though the novelist Jeffrey Eugenides said he was quite sure that sending this letter was akin to “shouting into a void,” something he’s used to as a fiction writer, he was still hopeful. “I’ve also been surprised, in the past, at how often the void shouts back,” he said.Here’s the letter:In barring people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States for 90 days, barring all refugees from entering the country for 120 days, and blocking migration from Syria indefinitely, your January Executive Order caused the chaos and hardship of families divided, lives disrupted, and law-abiding faced with handcuffs, detention, and deportation. In so doing, the Executive Order also hindered the free flow of artists and thinkers — and did so at a time when vibrant, open intercultural dialogue is indispensable in the fight against terror and oppression. Its restriction is inconsistent with the values of the United States and the freedoms for which it stands.The negative impact of the original Executive Order was felt immediately, creating stress and uncertainty for artists of global renown and disrupting major U.S. cultural events. Oscar-nominated director Asghar Farhadi, who is from Iran, expecting to be unable to travel to the Academy Awards ceremony in late February, announced that he will not attend. Syrian singer Omar Souleyman, who performed at the 2013 Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo, Norway, may now be prevented from singing at Brooklyn’s World Music Institute in May 2017. The ability of Adonis, an 87-year-old globally celebrated poet who is a French national of Syrian extraction, to attend the May 2017 PEN World Voices Festival in New York remains in question.Preventing international artists from contributing to American cultural life will not make America safer, and will damage its international prestige and influence. Not only will such a policy prevent great artists from performing, but it will constrict the interchange of important ideas, isolating the U.S. politically and culturally. Reciprocal actions against American citizens, such as those already taken by the governments of Iraq and Iran, will further limit the ability of American artists to move freely.Arts and culture have the power to enable people to see beyond their differences. Creativity is an antidote to isolationism, paranoia, misunderstanding, and violent intolerance. In the countries most affected by the immigration ban, it is writers, artists, musicians, and filmmakers who are often at the vanguard in the fights against oppression and terror. Should it interrupt the ability of artists to travel, perform, and collaborate, such an Executive Order will aid those who would silence essential voices and exacerbate the hatreds that fuel global conflict.We strongly believe that the immediate and long-term consequences of your original Executive Order are entirely at odds with the national interests of the United States. As you contemplate any potential new measures we respectfully urge you to tailor them narrowly to address only legitimate and substantiated threats and to avoid imposing broad bans that affect millions of people, including the writers, artists and thinkers whose voices and presence help foster international understanding.Sincerely,See More »Go to Home Page »20%40%60%Highest refusal rates in fiscal year 2015Palau96%Guinea-Bissau65Micronesia86Somalia65Cuba76Syria63Gambia76Ghana63Laos67Liberia62SyriaAfghanistan63%61%Mauritania61%Cuba76%LaosHaiti60%67%El Salvador46%GhanaLiberiaSomalia62%63%65%Refusal rates by country in fiscal year 2015October 2014 to September 201520%40%60%Syria63%Mauritania61%Cuba76%Guinea-BissauLaosAfghanistanHaiti60%67%61%65%El Salvador46%LiberiaGhanaSomalia62%63%65%Refusal rates by country in fiscal year 2015October 2014 to September 201520%40%60%Application denials vary by country, and applicants are typically not told why they are denied. Thirteen countries had a denial rate of over 60 percent in 2015. The highest rates were in African and Middle Eastern countries, including Ghana, Syria and Somalia. Cuba and Laos also had high denial rates.Visitors from the 38 countries that are members of the visa-waiver program don’t have to follow all the steps above. But they still have to provide personal information to the American government before they can board a plane to the United States. Many citizens of Canada and Bermuda can also visit the United States without a visa.Members of the visa-waiver programMost travelers from countries in the visa-waiver program may visit the United States for up to 90 days without a visa. They go through a shorter process and pay a smaller fee than visa travelers do. They apply for travel authorization by submitting personal information, including employment, communicable diseases and criminal history. After arriving, Customs and Border Protection officers make the final decision regarding entry.People who were dual nationals of a visa-waiver country and Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria also became ineligible. These travelers, as well as anyone whose travel authorization is not approved, have to go through the visa process.SAN FRANCISCO — The “knowledge transfer sessions” started a few months after Jeff Tan received notice last summer that he and about 80 co-workers would be laid off by the University of California, San Francisco, at the end of February.At daily two-hour meetings with employees from HCL Technologies, an Indian tech services company that had landed the outsourcing contract from U.C.S.F., Mr. Tan trained HCL staff members in India by videoconference and employees brought to the United States on H-1B visas how to do his job.But for tech workers like Mr. Tan, the program has had very negative consequences.“I thought the purpose of H-1B visas was to give America a competitive edge, not help companies ship American jobs abroad,” said Mr. Tan, who had worked for the university as an information technology systems administrator for 20 years. “This is now standard practice in the technology industry.”A research report by Goldman Sachs estimates that 900,000 to a million H-1B visa holders now reside in the United States, and that they account for up to 13 percent of American technology jobs.In 2014, 13 outsourcing firms accounted for one-third of all H-1B visas. They use a loophole in the current first-come, first-served lottery system to flood the applicant pool with their candidates. In many cases, those candidates are paid slightly more than the $60,000-a-year minimum salary required by the program for dependent companies seeking a waiver from having to recruit Americans first — but less than what American technology workers make.Audrey Hatten-Milholin, 54, was notified in July that she would be laid off from the University of California, San Francisco, at the end of February after 17 years in its technology department. Along with eight others, she filed a complaint in November with California’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing, charging that replacing her and others with “significantly younger, male” workers “who will then perform the work overseas” was discriminatory.“We are at a disadvantage as Americans,” Ms. Hatten-Milholin said. “They look at it like, where can we get it cheaper? And for U.C., it’s not here.”Proponents of the H-1B system argue that it is an important vehicle to attract top talent to America. After coming to the United States, these visa holders may apply their skills to start new companies or create new, innovative products — leading to more jobs in America.The debate over who wins and who loses as a result of the H-1B visa program echoes similar discussions of how free trade helps or hurts the economy. While the benefits are spread broadly throughout the economy, the costs are much more concentrated and easy to identify.After 11 years working in the I.T. department of Northeast Utilities, a Connecticut-based company now named Eversource Energy, Craig Diangelo was among 220 employees laid off in 2014. Before leaving the company, he was told he needed to train his replacement if he wanted to receive his severance.Mr. Diangelo, who is now 64 and was receiving $130,000 a year in salary and bonus, said he trained an employee from the Indian outsourcing firm Infosys who was an H-1B visa holder making $60,000 a year. There was also a team of workers in India making $6,000 a year that shadowed him on the computer.“The problem,” he said, “is that my job is still there. I went away. The American worker went away.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A representative of Infosys declined to comment. Al Lara, a spokesman for Eversource Energy, said in a statement: “We made changes to our I.T. department three years ago during a period of transition and change to support the merger of our two companies while under much regulatory scrutiny. We are proud of the new I.T. organization.” Mr. Lara was referring to a merger with NStar in 2012.In other instances, the jobs are filled only temporarily by H-1B workers — before the outsourcing firm moves the job permanently to a lower-cost country.“That’s the endgame,” said Sara Blackwell, a lawyer representing former employees of Walt Disney Company, Abbott Laboratories and other companies in discrimination claims pertaining to tech-job outsourcing.“I’m sure employers might not have as much choice as they would like, but if the shortage story were true, we’d see wages rising more rapidly than they are,” said Dean Baker, co-director of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. There is substantial unemployment, Mr. Baker said, even among workers in so-called STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) fields.Lawrence F. Katz, a prominent labor economist at Harvard, said companies like the H-1B visa program because it expands the pool of applicants. That means having to pay less in salary and retaining more control over employees.“From the point of view of an economist, there are two big winners,” he added. “The workers who come here with H-1B visas and the companies that employ them.”While it remains to be seen what Mr. Trump will do, various members of Congress have proposed measures to change the H-1B system. One idea is to raise the $60,000-salary threshold for some H-1B workers to $100,000 or more. The hope is that this will narrow the gap between the standard pay for an American tech worker and that of a foreign worker.Another proposed measure is to change the current first-come, first-served lottery system that is benefiting outsourcing firms. Yet another idea is for a salary bidding system, in which companies bid on what they would be willing to pay an applicant, potentially making it more difficult to flood the applicant pool with lower-cost workers.According to the University of California, San Francisco, technology costs to run U.C.S.F. Health, which encompasses the university’s hospital, medical center and patient care facilities, have tripled from 2011 to 2016. Outsourcing technology jobs will save the university more than $30 million over the next five years.But this argument has not spared the university from criticism for outsourcing the jobs because — as a public institution — it receives taxpayer funds and is a nonprofit organization.The university said neither it nor HCL would replace the laid-off employees with H-1B workers, although it acknowledges that HCL brought in some H-1B workers initially to understand the institution’s technology needs. Those workers, U.C.S.F. said, are no longer working on the account.Mr. Tan, 55, said he was not worried about returning to the job market in a few weeks and understood why the university took such measures. However, he is concerned about what his children will do when they start looking for work.“Today it’s me, but tomorrow it’s going to be a doctor or an engineer,” he said. “At what point do you draw the line?”An earlier version of this article misstated the H-1B program’s minimum salary requirement. The minimum salary is for dependent companies that seek a waiver from having to recruit Americans first, not for all companies hiring H-1B candidates.Go to Home Page »Much of the criticism of the executive order signed by President Trump has focused on foreigners prevented from entering the country, but a court filing in the legal battle over the travel ban reveals a far broader impact, imperiling the residency status of tens of thousands of immigrants — everyone from asylum seekers to students and technology workers — already living in the United States.Amid a storm of protest, Mr. Trump on Thursday continued to stick by the ban as essential to the safety of the nation, saying that in the “coming days, we will develop a system to help ensure that those admitted into our country fully embrace our values of religious and personal liberty.”“We want people to come into our nation, but we want people to love us and to love our values, not to hate us and to hate our values,” Mr. Trump said at the National Prayer Breakfast.Now, the Department of Homeland Security’s internal auditor has entered the fray. The office of the department’s inspector general announced late Wednesday that it would review how the agency carried out the executive order, which suspended the entry of all refugees for 120 days and blocked for 90 days citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The auditor said the review was a response to requests from Congress, whistle-blowers and to complaints received on a hotline.In addition to reviewing how the Department of Homeland Security carried out the executive order, the inspector general’s office said it would review the agency’s adherence to court orders and allegations of individual misconduct. The inspector general’s office, which did not say how long its review would take, said it could look into other issues as well.Some immigration lawyers said they feared that the State Department’s cancellation of visas could expose immigrants and other legal foreign residents to deportation, but officials at the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security said those in the United States were not affected.“This does not apply to individuals who were in the country on a valid visa at the time the order was signed,” said Gillian Christensen, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security.Only a case-by-case exemption deemed in the national interest “on the basis of a determination made by the secretaries of state and homeland security,” restore the visas while the policy remained in place, the department said. The visas were revoked “provisionally,” according to the memo, and could be reinstated once a new policy is formulated.But for now, the loss of their visas means that anyone from those countries who leaves the United States — even for funerals or family health emergencies — would be unable to return without getting a new visa, a lengthy process that cannot begin until the Trump administration has completed its review of the visa program.Unlike the refugee ban, which was announced with much fanfare, the canceled visas came to light only as a result of court filings by government lawyers defending the ban on travelers from the seven countries against litigation.Trump administration officials said they had chosen those seven countries based on concerns expressed by Obama administration officials, who in 2016 required anyone passing through the seven countries to get a visa. But those involved in the Obama administration effort said that the countries had largely been chosen by Congress as part of immigration legislation passed in 2015 and that the visa reviews were intended to catch Islamic State fighters and not to ban or inconvenience all of those countries’ citizens.Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said on Wednesday that legal permanent residents from the seven countries, also known as green card holders, would be able to enter the United States without getting special waivers. That was a change from the first days after the issuance of Mr. Trump’s executive order, when even green card holders from the seven countries were detained at airports, told to leave the United States or forbidden to get on planes to the United States.Yet even after the change, green card holders can be turned away at the border at the discretion of Customs and Border Protection officers, as only United States citizens have an irrevocable right to enter the country.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Basically, they are trapped without some other measures they would have to take, another application process they would have to go through,” said Doris Meissner, senior fellow and director of the United States immigration program at the Migration Policy Institute and a former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.Mr. Trump’s travel ban led to chaos at American airports, left would-be immigrants stranded at airports around the world and shut refugees out of a country that had already issued them visas.“The gathering of the appropriate officials to actually make this order operational did not even happen until after the order was signed,” Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, the top Democrat on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, said in a statement on Wednesday after a closed-door briefing by Homeland Security officials. “No wonder it was chaotic and rocky.”Ali Hamandi, a Ph.D. candidate at Harvard in health policy, said he had just returned from speaking with university officials about whether the policies could affect him. A Canadian citizen born in Iraq, he said he had found so much contradictory information online that he felt his only option was to cancel his travel plans and stay put.“There are layers of misinformation,” Mr. Hamandi said. “Emotionally it’s quite devastating.”In the hours after the executive order was signed, border officials detained or turned away anyone who was born in or had a passport from one of the seven countries, even those who also had citizenship in countries other than the targeted seven. But after the intervention of British and Canadian diplomats, Trump administration officials agreed to exempt dual-passport holders who presented passports from other countries. Under the new rules, dual citizens can now legally re-enter the United States if they leave, officials said.Adding to the concern, several green card holders, including Ms. Rouhi, said they had received unexpected notification this week that their Global Entry Trusted Traveler Network status had been revoked.A spokesman for Customs and Border Protection declined to address the canceled Global Entry memberships but said that enrollees in the program, which allows approved, low-risk travelers expedited clearance into the United States when they arrive, can be kicked out for a number of reasons, including being inadmissible to the United States under immigration regulations.“I thought because permanent residents were exempted from this, it was fine, but because my Global Entry status was revoked, I have new concerns,” he said.“The rules and regulations are changing by the hour, by the day. There’s a huge amount of uncertainty,” Mr. Vaez said. With a wife and a house in Washington, he added, “I just can’t risk it.”Mr. Vaez noted that his green card had been granted under the national-interest provision of immigration law and that he has been allowed inside the Pentagon and even the White House Situation Room as part of his work.“What has not been vetted properly is not people like me, it’s this new executive order,” he said. “That’s really the problem.”Caitlin Dickerson contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »CAIRO — Across the Muslim world, the refrain was resounding: President Trump’s freeze on refugee arrivals and visa requests from seven predominantly Muslim countries will have major diplomatic repercussions, worsen perceptions of Americans and offer a propaganda boost to the terrorist groups Mr. Trump says he is targeting.President Trump has since softened his language, casting his order on Friday as a way to keep terrorists, not Muslims, out of the United States.“We don’t want them here,” Mr. Trump said as he signed the order at the Pentagon. “We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas.”But in interviews with dozens of officials, analysts and ordinary citizens across Muslim-majority countries, there was overwhelming agreement that the order issued Friday signaled a provocation: a sign that the American president sees Islam itself as the problem.“I think this is going to alienate the whole Muslim world,” said Mouwafak al-Rubaie, a lawmaker and former Iraqi national security adviser in Iraq.“Terrorists can say, ‘See, their aim is not terror but Muslims,’ ” said Ilter Turan, a professor of international relations at Bilgi University in Istanbul.For years, American policy in much of the Muslim world has been an exercise in pragmatism, framed by a transactional ethos and the bloodshed of several wars.Now, according to some of America’s most experienced veterans of Arab diplomacy, that important distinction has been compromised — and along with it America’s relationship with the very people it is seeking to befriend.“The Islamic State says it is leading the war against the U.S.,” said Ryan C. Crocker, who served as the United States ambassador to five Muslim countries, including Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon, between 1990 and 2012. “Now it only has to pump out our press releases to prove that.”Mr. Trump’s executive order will alienate the pro-Western elites that Americans turn to for help in Muslim countries, Mr. Crocker said. And it broke promises to people who have risked their lives to help American soldiers or diplomats.The ban on entry to the United States will affect citizens of Syria, Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Libya and Yemen, who will be prohibited from entering the country for 90 days until the Trump administration tightens up visa controls that many feel are already excessively stringent.Refugees from Syria, whom Mr. Trump portrayed during his election campaign as potential Islamic State infiltrators, will be barred indefinitely from the country.But even in countries not directly affected by the ban, it sent a dispiriting signal.“It gives the impression that America is no longer the country it used to be,” said Ammar Ali Hassan, a prominent Egyptian novelist. “It is no longer open to skilled people from across the world. It is no longer the land of dreams.”Muslims in many Western countries have felt the brunt of paranoia and racial discrimination as Islamic State attacks have continued in the past year and the public furor over immigration has grown.The order cuts the number of refugees to the U.S. in half and bars those from Syria.Now Muslims from abroad face the prospect of “extreme vetting” to enter the country — if they can secure a visa at all.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Friday, Mr. Trump said that once the United States resumed the intake of refugees, Christians would receive priority. Until recently, “If you were a Muslim you could come in, but if you were a Christian, it was almost impossible,” he told Christian Broadcasting News.Many Muslims have long viewed America’s vision of itself as hypocritical and its idealism as degraded. After years of grinding war in countries like Afghanistan and Iraq, there is a growing belief that even many Americans do not truly believe talk about America being a “shining city on the hill” that seeks to do good in the world.“Trump has dispensed with the politeness, but that wasn’t fooling people before,” said Karl Sharro, a Lebanese-Iraqi architect and commentator who is based in London. “In being honest about these draconian measures, a lot of people will say that at least we know where we stand now.”“I just collected what everyone is saying in Arab countries,” he said. “It’s a kind of schadenfreude.”Mr. Sharro said he was insulted by suggestions that the visa ban might help create a new cadre of radicalized Muslims.“The assumption that these people are going to flip into terrorists and start attacking the United States is driven by some very condescending liberal assumptions,” he said.Visiting the United States can already be a demeaning process for many Muslims. Refugees have to go through an exhaustive 18-month security clearance program, while visitors on tourist or business visas have complained of being sometimes singled out at American airports.“Only Americans suffer from the delusion that Muslims are not already being extensively racially profiled at immigration counters when they enter the United States,” said Ali Dayan Hasan, a human rights consultant from Pakistan who has regularly visited the United States since 2001.Arab leaders in countries unaffected by the visa ban may not respond with outright criticism of the United States, possibly waiting to see what active steps Mr. Trump takes in the region’s many crises.The new measures announced by Mr. Trump now place those promises in jeopardy, said Mr. Crocker, who since retiring from the foreign service has helped several interpreters get resettled in the United States. The measures, he said, also send an ominous message to anyone who might consider working for the American government in the future.“We are effectively saying to past, current and potential future interpreters,” he said, “that we want them to work with us and risk their lives in the field — confident in the knowledge that they will be hung out to dry.”Reporting was contributed by Tim Arango and Karam Shoumali from Istanbul; Omar Al-Jawoshy from Baghdad; Mujib Mashal and Jawad Sukhanyar from Kabul, Afghanistan; and Nour Youssef from Cairo.Go to Home Page »PARIS — The ability of an Oscar-nominated Iranian director to attend the Academy Awards ceremony next month has been thrown into question by President Trump’s order temporarily banning citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.The director, Asghar Farhadi, whose film “The Salesman” is nominated in the best foreign-language film category, was not immediately available for comment.In a telephone interview hours later, Mr. Parsi said he had heard only second hand that Mr. Farhadi would not attend the ceremony on Feb. 26. Mr. Parsi said his intention with the message posted on Twitter was to show that under the new immigration policy announced on Friday, no Iranians would be allowed entry into the United States for 90 days.“The clarification of the law made it very clear that he can’t come, whether a green card holder or an Iranian citizen,” Mr. Parsi said of Mr. Farhadi, whose film “A Separation” won an Oscar for best foreign-language film in 2012.Mr. Parsi added that he had not meant to imply that the United States government had requested that Mr. Farhadi not come to the Oscars ceremony, but to call attention to the ban itself.“It is so stunning and shocking — so profoundly un-American — that people have a hard time wrapping their heads around it,” Mr. Parsi said.It was unclear whether Mr. Farhadi would request an exemption to the visa ban or be granted one by the United States government.“I decided not to go even if I could, because it hurts me deeply to see ordinary people of my country being rejected for what might be their legal right to have access to their children abroad or to their school classes as students,” Ms. Alidoosti told The New York Times in an interview.The government of Iran approved the “The Salesman” for submission to the Academy Awards; it is one of five films vying for best foreign-language film. The film tells the story of a couple in Tehran whose lives are upended when they move from one apartment to another while they are acting in an amateur production of “Death of a Salesman,” a play by Arthur Miller.In a statement, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said it was “extremely troubling” that Mr. Farhadi and the cast and crew of “The Salesman,” could be “barred from entering the country because of their religion or country of origin.”The Academy gives an allotment of tickets to distributors and representatives of all nominated films, who are responsible for securing visas when necessary.Thomas Erdbrink contributed reporting from Tehran.See More »Go to Home Page »SEATTLE — American technology companies for years have relied on a steady stream of skilled engineers from overseas to help them create their products.Now many of those companies and their workers are girding for expected changes to immigration policy under President Trump that the companies say could hurt their ability to tap the technical talent they need to stay competitive.Mr. Trump, who has signed a series of executive orders related to immigration, is expected to soon take similar action on visa programs for foreign workers.The draft proposed a regulation to “restore the integrity of employment-based nonimmigrant worker programs” and to consider options for modifying the H-1B program to “ensure that beneficiaries of the program are the best and the brightest.”That language rattled some executives and lawyers representing technology companies because of its implication of sweeping changes.“You’d be shocked at the number of people who are feeling fear, calling our firm alarmed based on what’s coming out,” said Priya Alagiri, an immigration lawyer based in the Bay Area who has tech clients. “It’s not just the undocumented. Even people who are here on green cards, legally. Citizens. They’re scared.”Some technology companies have started warning their investors of potential threats to their business from the changes. In a filing on Thursday with securities regulators related to its quarterly financial results, Microsoft included new language related to immigration.“Changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts,” the company said in the filing.Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said in a statement that the company believes “in a strong and balanced high-skilled immigration system and in broader immigration opportunities for talented and law-abiding young people like the Dreamers,” a reference to young people who entered the country illegally as children but were allowed to remain by President Barack Obama.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We are a nation of immigrants, and we all benefit when the best and brightest from around the world can live, work and contribute here,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. “I hope we find the courage and compassion to bring people together and make this world a better place for everyone.”The technology industry is open to changes that have been proposed by members of Congress to better enforce the skilled worker program and adjust limits on the number of visas. But the companies see skilled worker visas as a signature policy issue that they have fought to protect and expand.They fear Jeff Sessions, the nominee for attorney general, and others in the administration will take a more severe approach to immigration and sweep up H-1B visas into prohibitions on refugees and stronger border protection.“The effect would end up being exactly the opposite of what Trump wants. Companies would go offshore like Microsoft did with Vancouver, Canada” to seek talent, said Robert D. Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a research group sponsored by several tech firms.But Mr. Trump has made it increasingly clear that immigration policy may change drastically.Any changes to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, initiated under the Obama administration, could have significant effects on current tech employees who fear for their status.“Right now, we are focused on making sure for protections for 750,000 Dreamers who have DACA stay in place,” said Todd Schulte, president of Fwd.us, in an interview. “If the goal is to increase public safety and prevent future illegal immigration, the way to do that is to modernize the legal immigration process. That’s radically different than a large-scale ramp-up of rapid deportation.”The White House did not respond to a request for comment.Cecilia Kang contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — After a protracted political debate, Congress passed a measure on Thursday that would offer sanctuary to a fraction of the Afghan interpreters and translators who have risked their lives to help the military.The measure, included in an annual military policy bill, renews the nearly nine-year-old visa program for Afghans facing serious threats because they assisted American troops. The Senate passed the broader, $619 billion legislation, 92 to 7, sending it to President Obama for his signature.But the renewal added just 1,500 extra visas, not nearly enough to cover the approximately 13,000 pending applications, and it imposes more eligibility restrictions on an already complicated process.“I think it’s clear that we will run out of those visas,” she said.Now, the fate of the visa program will hinge on a government led by President-elect Donald J. Trump, who has yet to say how he will handle an issue that is championed by the military but would also bring more Muslim immigrants to the United States.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“By failing to allocate sufficient visas to provide our Afghan allies with a path to safety, we fail to keep the faith with them — and with our troops and diplomats who rely on them to succeed in their mission,” Betsy Fisher, the policy director of the International Refugee Assistance Project, said in a statement last week.Republicans trumpeted in particular the fact that the bill would offer troops their largest pay increase since 2010, a raise of 2.1 percent, as well as an overhaul of the troubled health care system for veterans. The legislation will also make changes to the acquisitions office at the Pentagon, splitting it into two to separate its more cutting-edge research work from daily tasks like managing contracts.The bill will lay the framework for the Pentagon that Mr. Trump will soon inherit, leaving it up to the next Congress to set aside the money to fund many of those policies. Mr. Trump said during his campaign that he would toss out the military budget caps known as sequestration, opening the door to more spending. Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said on Tuesday that lawmakers would quickly take up spending bills early next year.Democrats expressed some reservations about the legislation, which totaled more than $3 billion above Mr. Obama’s budget request. While officials have not yet said whether Mr. Obama will sign it, Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, recently told reporters there were parts of the legislation that were “encouraging.”Go to Home Page »Mr. Trump said this week that he would issue an executive order to suspend immigration for at least 30 days for citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It remains unclear how and whether the ban would take effect.In an email interview, she said that she would not attend the Oscars ceremony on Feb. 26 even if it turned out the proposed ban did not affect her ability to get a visa.“I decided not to go even if I could, because it hurts me deeply to see ordinary people of my country being rejected for what might be their legal right to have access to their children abroad or to their school classes as students,” Ms. Alidoosti said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The Salesman” tells the story of a Tehran couple whose lives are irrevocably changed when they have to move apartments while starring in an amateur production of Arthur Miller’s “The Death of a Salesman.”The actress noted that the United States did not have an embassy in Tehran and that Iranians often traveled to neighboring countries to secure visas. “Many people have urgent medical cases,” she said. “I’m sure all of them are not just going through the ordeal for a fun vacation; they might have a more serious case.”“I’m sure the United States has also benefited many times from Iranian immigrants and people who have worked there and served that country,” Ms. Alidoosti added. “So it’s not acceptable to me to respect a state that does not respect the people of my country.”See More »Go to Home Page »“This is not the way to best protect the United States or any other country in relation to the serious concerns that exist of the possibilities of terrorist infiltration,” said the secretary general, António Guterres, in his first detailed remarks on President Trump’s executive order, which also indefinitely suspended Syrian refugee resettlement. “I think these measures should be removed sooner rather than later.”Mr. Guterres, who took over as leader of the United Nations a month ago, was for 10 years the head of the United Nations refugee agency. He said Syrians today had the most urgent need for protection.“I strongly hope that the U.S. will be able to re-establish its very solid refugee protection in resettlement and I hope that the Syrians will not be excluded in that process,” Mr. Guterres told reporters at the United Nations headquarters.The secretary general stopped short of calling Mr. Trump’s executive order illegal under international law. But asked whether it violates international obligations, he said: “I think that those measures indeed violate our basic principles. And I think that they are not effective if the objective is to really avoid terrorists to enter the United States.”Mr. Guterres is under enormous pressure. On the one hand, he must speak out against discrimination, in keeping with the rules enshrined in international conventions. On the other, he needs to avoid alienating the president of the United States, which is the United Nations’ biggest financial backer.Mr. Guterres declined to comment about the White House’s reported threats to cut financial support to the United Nations, saying he did not want to prejudge what has not yet been announced. “When you talk too much about things that have not happened, you trigger the happening of those things,” he said.He said he had held “a very constructive discussion” with the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley.“What I am doing is to do everything I can to prove the added value of the U.N., to recognize the U.N. needs reforms, to be totally committed to those reforms,” Mr. Guterres said.That, he argued, is “the best way to get, indeed, the support of all member states, including the United States of America and the new administration.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Wednesday, five independent human rights experts for the United Nations also criticized the Trump administration in a statement that described the new American policy as a discriminatory action that had stigmatized Muslim communities.The countries affected by Mr. Trump’s order are Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.Mr. Guterres, in his comments on Wednesday, also warned of a backlash.“When we adopt measures that spread anxiety and anger,” he said, “we help trigger the kind of recruitment mechanism that these organizations are doing everywhere in the world.”Legal experts say the executive order could collide with international law. It is already facing numerous legal challenges in American courts.Additionally, laws governing the rights of refugees prohibit sending people back to countries where they could face persecution.Nick Cumming-Bruce contributed reporting from Geneva.Go to Home Page »“This is not the way to best protect the United States or any other country in relation to the serious concerns that exist of the possibilities of terrorist infiltration,” said the secretary general, António Guterres, in his first detailed remarks on President Trump’s executive order, which also indefinitely suspended Syrian refugee resettlement. “I think these measures should be removed sooner rather than later.”Mr. Guterres, who took over as leader of the United Nations a month ago, was for 10 years the head of the United Nations refugee agency. He said Syrians today had the most urgent need for protection.“I strongly hope that the U.S. will be able to re-establish its very solid refugee protection in resettlement and I hope that the Syrians will not be excluded in that process,” Mr. Guterres told reporters at the United Nations headquarters.The secretary general stopped short of calling Mr. Trump’s executive order illegal under international law. But asked whether it violates international obligations, he said: “I think that those measures indeed violate our basic principles. And I think that they are not effective if the objective is to really avoid terrorists to enter the United States.”Mr. Guterres is under enormous pressure. On the one hand, he must speak out against discrimination, in keeping with the rules enshrined in international conventions. On the other, he needs to avoid alienating the president of the United States, which is the United Nations’ biggest financial backer.Mr. Guterres declined to comment about the White House’s reported threats to cut financial support to the United Nations, saying he did not want to prejudge what has not yet been announced. “When you talk too much about things that have not happened, you trigger the happening of those things,” he said.He said he had held “a very constructive discussion” with the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley.“What I am doing is to do everything I can to prove the added value of the U.N., to recognize the U.N. needs reforms, to be totally committed to those reforms,” Mr. Guterres said.That, he argued, is “the best way to get, indeed, the support of all member states, including the United States of America and the new administration.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Wednesday, five independent human rights experts for the United Nations also criticized the Trump administration in a statement that described the new American policy as a discriminatory action that had stigmatized Muslim communities.The countries affected by Mr. Trump’s order are Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.Mr. Guterres, in his comments on Wednesday, also warned of a backlash.“When we adopt measures that spread anxiety and anger,” he said, “we help trigger the kind of recruitment mechanism that these organizations are doing everywhere in the world.”Legal experts say the executive order could collide with international law. It is already facing numerous legal challenges in American courts.Additionally, laws governing the rights of refugees prohibit sending people back to countries where they could face persecution.Nick Cumming-Bruce contributed reporting from Geneva.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »Gabor Tankovics was checking off the boxes for his New York City tech start-up this past spring. Investors. Advisers. Users. But one box was still noticeably blank: Visa.“I really felt like, ‘O.K., I am at the stage where things are starting to work out,’” said Mr. Tankovics, 33, a native of Hungary. “At the same time, I might have to leave.”By March, she and Mr. Tankovics will be joined by as many as 20 more participants in the program, working at five schools in the CUNY system, according to IN2NYC officials.Ms. Bahl had been out of options. She had earned her master’s degree in integrated marketing from New York University in 2015 and twice applied for an H-1B visa. The visas, which go to skilled workers, are given out by lottery each year. The number of recipients is capped at 85,000, but more than three times as many people apply each year. And self-employed entrepreneurs are not eligible.But in 2000, Congress allowed for exemptions to the cap, including people working at institutions of higher education or affiliated nonprofits.“It is an amazing and crucial opportunity,” Ms. Bahl said in an email. “I would not have been able to expand Mogul further without work authorization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Or, as the program’s consulting lawyer, Peter F. Asaad, put it: “Without a program like this, she certainly would be out in the cold.”Because of guidelines set by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, IN2NYC applicants must be sponsored for the visa by their company’s board of directors, all of whom are American citizens or permanent residents. The board members have the power to determine how much the applicant earns and other terms of employment.The program does not just benefit the visa holder, its creators say.“It’s not just about one person, but it’s about the larger ripple effect,” said Maria Torres-Springer, the president of New York City’s development corporation. “Both in terms of job creation for that company, and what it also means for the students and faculty, the local schools with which they partner.”She added: “It’s an entire ecosystem.”Dartboard and Mogul both are geared toward millennials. Mr. Tankovics explained that his web application, available only by invitation now but planned for public testing in January, helps people pay their student loans faster, saving money on interest payments.Although he does not have any American student loans — he got a law degree and a master’s degree in business administration in Paris — when he came to New York for his master’s degree at Parsons School of Design, his friends in the United States all bemoaned their debt. A prototype of the app was the basis of his master’s thesis.He has not thought about how he would find a way to stay once his visa expires.“As a start-up founder, you do need to have a long-term vision, but at the same time you’re very into short-term fights. You’re struggling with every micro-decision,” Mr. Tankovics said.Next semester, he is planning to teach a course at LaGuardia tentatively called “Designing for Financial Empowerment.” He hopes to teach students how to create opportunities for those New Yorkers who may not be served by traditional financial outlets, like banks.His short-term goals are simple. “To have more users and a better service at the end of January and then hire new people,” Mr. Tankovics said. Then, looking around at the harshly lit space, he smiled. “And to move to an office with a window.”An article on Monday about a new program for international entrepreneurs misidentified the educational institution that partnered with New York City’s Economic Development Corporation. It is the City University of New York, not the City College of New York.Go to Home Page »A federal judge in Florida dealt a blow on Thursday to legal claims by American technology workers who were laid off by the Walt Disney Company and forced to train foreign replacements, dismissing lawsuits by two workers who said Disney had conspired with outsourcing companies to violate visa laws.In a terse decision, Judge Gregory A. Presnell of the United States District Court in Orlando rejected the former workers’ arguments that Disney and the two contractors had colluded to make false statements when they applied for temporary visas, known as H-1B, for the foreign replacements.The judge found that “none of the allegedly false statements put at issue in the complaint are adequate” to sustain the former workers’ case. The outsourcing companies that were sued with Disney were Cognizant Technology Solutions and HCL America.The plaintiffs, Leo Perrero and Dena Moore, were laid off early in 2015 from jobs with Disney in Orlando. In their final weeks on the job, they were required to show foreigners on H-1B visas, brought in by the outsourcing contractors mainly from India, how to do their work.A spokeswoman for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, Jacquee Wahler, said, “As we have said all along, this lawsuit was completely baseless, and we are gratified by the decision.”The former workers’ cases hinged on their argument that the companies had violated clauses of the visa law requiring employers to show that hiring H-1B workers “will not adversely affect the working conditions” of other workers in similar jobs. The law also requires large outsourcing companies that employ many H-1B workers to certify in some circumstances that those workers “will not displace any similarly employed U.S. worker” within six months of applying for the visa.The outsourcing companies argued that the law would apply to them only if the American workers who were displaced by visa holders they hired had originally been their employees, not Disney’s. Judge Presnell was persuaded by that argument, although he did not entirely reject the idea that the Americans were “adversely affected” by being fired.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The decision was a broad victory for Disney and its contractors, but Judge Presnell left the former workers a small window to amend their lawsuits and to try again.Mr. Perrero said the decision was a dismaying surprise. “This has become an effective business model in the IT industry where two companies can come together and wipe out American jobs without much fear of legal action,” he said. “I just hope that greed isn’t taking our country in the wrong direction.”Sara Blackwell, the lawyer who represented the Disney workers, said, “I wanted to see if there was any legal avenue we could use to protect our American citizens, but it seems we can’t.”Congress considered bills this year to amend provisions in the H-1B visa laws that tech workers say have led to thousands of layoffs, but no action was taken.The Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, said early in his campaign that he would seek to change the law to prevent layoffs. But he has not addressed the issue recently.Go to Home Page »A federal judge in Florida dealt a blow on Thursday to legal claims by American technology workers who were laid off by the Walt Disney Company and forced to train foreign replacements, dismissing lawsuits by two workers who said Disney had conspired with outsourcing companies to violate visa laws.In a terse decision, Judge Gregory A. Presnell of the United States District Court in Orlando rejected the former workers’ arguments that Disney and the two contractors had colluded to make false statements when they applied for temporary visas, known as H-1B, for the foreign replacements.The judge found that “none of the allegedly false statements put at issue in the complaint are adequate” to sustain the former workers’ case. The outsourcing companies that were sued with Disney were Cognizant Technology Solutions and HCL America.The plaintiffs, Leo Perrero and Dena Moore, were laid off early in 2015 from jobs with Disney in Orlando. In their final weeks on the job, they were required to show foreigners on H-1B visas, brought in by the outsourcing contractors mainly from India, how to do their work.A spokeswoman for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, Jacquee Wahler, said, “As we have said all along, this lawsuit was completely baseless, and we are gratified by the decision.”The former workers’ cases hinged on their argument that the companies had violated clauses of the visa law requiring employers to show that hiring H-1B workers “will not adversely affect the working conditions” of other workers in similar jobs. The law also requires large outsourcing companies that employ many H-1B workers to certify in some circumstances that those workers “will not displace any similarly employed U.S. worker” within six months of applying for the visa.The outsourcing companies argued that the law would apply to them only if the American workers who were displaced by visa holders they hired had originally been their employees, not Disney’s. Judge Presnell was persuaded by that argument, although he did not entirely reject the idea that the Americans were “adversely affected” by being fired.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The decision was a broad victory for Disney and its contractors, but Judge Presnell left the former workers a small window to amend their lawsuits and to try again.Mr. Perrero said the decision was a dismaying surprise. “This has become an effective business model in the IT industry where two companies can come together and wipe out American jobs without much fear of legal action,” he said. “I just hope that greed isn’t taking our country in the wrong direction.”Sara Blackwell, the lawyer who represented the Disney workers, said, “I wanted to see if there was any legal avenue we could use to protect our American citizens, but it seems we can’t.”Congress considered bills this year to amend provisions in the H-1B visa laws that tech workers say have led to thousands of layoffs, but no action was taken.The Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, said early in his campaign that he would seek to change the law to prevent layoffs. But he has not addressed the issue recently.Go to Home Page »A federal judge in Florida dealt a blow on Thursday to legal claims by American technology workers who were laid off by the Walt Disney Company and forced to train foreign replacements, dismissing lawsuits by two workers who said Disney had conspired with outsourcing companies to violate visa laws.In a terse decision, Judge Gregory A. Presnell of the United States District Court in Orlando rejected the former workers’ arguments that Disney and the two contractors had colluded to make false statements when they applied for temporary visas, known as H-1B, for the foreign replacements.The judge found that “none of the allegedly false statements put at issue in the complaint are adequate” to sustain the former workers’ case. The outsourcing companies that were sued with Disney were Cognizant Technology Solutions and HCL America.The plaintiffs, Leo Perrero and Dena Moore, were laid off early in 2015 from jobs with Disney in Orlando. In their final weeks on the job, they were required to show foreigners on H-1B visas, brought in by the outsourcing contractors mainly from India, how to do their work.A spokeswoman for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, Jacquee Wahler, said, “As we have said all along, this lawsuit was completely baseless, and we are gratified by the decision.”The former workers’ cases hinged on their argument that the companies had violated clauses of the visa law requiring employers to show that hiring H-1B workers “will not adversely affect the working conditions” of other workers in similar jobs. The law also requires large outsourcing companies that employ many H-1B workers to certify in some circumstances that those workers “will not displace any similarly employed U.S. worker” within six months of applying for the visa.The outsourcing companies argued that the law would apply to them only if the American workers who were displaced by visa holders they hired had originally been their employees, not Disney’s. Judge Presnell was persuaded by that argument, although he did not entirely reject the idea that the Americans were “adversely affected” by being fired.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The decision was a broad victory for Disney and its contractors, but Judge Presnell left the former workers a small window to amend their lawsuits and to try again.Mr. Perrero said the decision was a dismaying surprise. “This has become an effective business model in the IT industry where two companies can come together and wipe out American jobs without much fear of legal action,” he said. “I just hope that greed isn’t taking our country in the wrong direction.”Sara Blackwell, the lawyer who represented the Disney workers, said, “I wanted to see if there was any legal avenue we could use to protect our American citizens, but it seems we can’t.”Congress considered bills this year to amend provisions in the H-1B visa laws that tech workers say have led to thousands of layoffs, but no action was taken.The Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, said early in his campaign that he would seek to change the law to prevent layoffs. But he has not addressed the issue recently.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — A contentious visa program that allows wealthy foreigners to obtain a green card by investing in economic development projects will expire at the end of this month unless Congress acts to extend it.But the program has been marred by fraud and used to build large projects in wealthier areas like Manhattan and the Las Vegas Strip instead of high-unemployment or rural areas. Federal investigators have also discovered that attempts to infiltrate the program were made by people with possible ties to Chinese and Iranian intelligence, and that international fugitives who laundered money in their home countries gained citizenship through the program.Mr. Stenger announced in a statement this month that he had reached a settlement with the federal government. The case against Mr. Quiros is pending.“The program has become plagued by fraud and abuse and, if not reformed, it should be allowed to expire on September 30th,” they wrote.“There is a need for more oversight and transparency,” said Ronald R. Fieldstone, a Miami lawyer who has been involved in using EB-5 funding for development projects. “If there is no independence in the administering and the distribution of the funds, it exposes the program to instances of fraud.”But Mr. Grassley and Mr. Leahy say other changes are needed.The program, which was created in 1990, has expanded well beyond its original intent, they say. EB-5 requires an investment in either a rural area or a “targeted employment area,” which is defined as an urban area with an unemployment rate of at least 150 percent of the national average.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Mr. Grassley and Mr. Leahy said developers had broadly defined these areas by adding a few low-income communities to wealthier neighborhoods so they could use EB-5 funding to build luxury condos, convention centers and hotels, amounting to what the senators said was economic gerrymandering.Angelique Brunner, owner of a Washington-based center that raises capital through the EB-5 program, said many of the examples that critics point to as EB-5 investments in upscale areas failed to note that the program helped transform places that were previously economically depressed.“One of the challenges of EB-5 investment is that people look at what an area looks like after the investment,” she said. “It’s hard to convince them what it looked like before.”The EB-5 program has grown rapidly. About 10,000 visas are awarded annually, primarily to wealthy Chinese citizens, who make up about 80 percent of the investors and see the program as an easier way to gain United States citizenship for themselves and their families.Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said the EB-5 program has sent a terrible message to millions of immigrants waiting their turn to enter the United States through normal channels. A number of other members of Congress echo her concerns, in large part because while most visa applicants must meet education or work requirements, the primary requirement for the EB-5 program is a “lawful source of investment income,” as a Homeland Security memo put it.Lawmakers have not said when they would take up the EB-5 reauthorization. Last year, the program was extended as part of the omnibus spending bill.An article on Monday about the EB-5 visa program referred incorrectly to one aspect of the process. The program allows foreign investors to gain permanent residency when they invest between $500,000 and $1 million in a business that creates 10 jobs directly or indirectly. They do not gain citizenship by doing so. (They can apply for full citizenship after five years.) The article also referred incorrectly to Angelique Brunner, a spokeswoman for the EB-5 Investment Coalition, which is made up of investors and developers. Ms. Brunner is the owner of a Washington-based center that raises capital through the EB-5 program; she is not a developer.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — A contentious visa program that allows wealthy foreigners to obtain a green card by investing in economic development projects will expire at the end of this month unless Congress acts to extend it.But the program has been marred by fraud and used to build large projects in wealthier areas like Manhattan and the Las Vegas Strip instead of high-unemployment or rural areas. Federal investigators have also discovered that attempts to infiltrate the program were made by people with possible ties to Chinese and Iranian intelligence, and that international fugitives who laundered money in their home countries gained citizenship through the program.Mr. Stenger announced in a statement this month that he had reached a settlement with the federal government. The case against Mr. Quiros is pending.“The program has become plagued by fraud and abuse and, if not reformed, it should be allowed to expire on September 30th,” they wrote.“There is a need for more oversight and transparency,” said Ronald R. Fieldstone, a Miami lawyer who has been involved in using EB-5 funding for development projects. “If there is no independence in the administering and the distribution of the funds, it exposes the program to instances of fraud.”But Mr. Grassley and Mr. Leahy say other changes are needed.The program, which was created in 1990, has expanded well beyond its original intent, they say. EB-5 requires an investment in either a rural area or a “targeted employment area,” which is defined as an urban area with an unemployment rate of at least 150 percent of the national average.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Mr. Grassley and Mr. Leahy said developers had broadly defined these areas by adding a few low-income communities to wealthier neighborhoods so they could use EB-5 funding to build luxury condos, convention centers and hotels, amounting to what the senators said was economic gerrymandering.Angelique Brunner, owner of a Washington-based center that raises capital through the EB-5 program, said many of the examples that critics point to as EB-5 investments in upscale areas failed to note that the program helped transform places that were previously economically depressed.“One of the challenges of EB-5 investment is that people look at what an area looks like after the investment,” she said. “It’s hard to convince them what it looked like before.”The EB-5 program has grown rapidly. About 10,000 visas are awarded annually, primarily to wealthy Chinese citizens, who make up about 80 percent of the investors and see the program as an easier way to gain United States citizenship for themselves and their families.Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said the EB-5 program has sent a terrible message to millions of immigrants waiting their turn to enter the United States through normal channels. A number of other members of Congress echo her concerns, in large part because while most visa applicants must meet education or work requirements, the primary requirement for the EB-5 program is a “lawful source of investment income,” as a Homeland Security memo put it.Lawmakers have not said when they would take up the EB-5 reauthorization. Last year, the program was extended as part of the omnibus spending bill.An article on Monday about the EB-5 visa program referred incorrectly to one aspect of the process. The program allows foreign investors to gain permanent residency when they invest between $500,000 and $1 million in a business that creates 10 jobs directly or indirectly. They do not gain citizenship by doing so. (They can apply for full citizenship after five years.) The article also referred incorrectly to Angelique Brunner, a spokeswoman for the EB-5 Investment Coalition, which is made up of investors and developers. Ms. Brunner is the owner of a Washington-based center that raises capital through the EB-5 program; she is not a developer.Go to Home Page »A statement from the Pakistani Foreign Ministry rejected the accusations as “false and unsubstantiated.”In a tit-for-tat announcement Thursday evening, Pakistan announced it would expel an Indian official posted in Islamabad, giving his family 48 hours to leave the country.Mr. Akhtar was detained on Wednesday, during what the police said was a rendezvous at the gate of the Delhi zoo, where two contacts were to provide information about Indian border deployments in exchange for money. The police said they recovered “secret defense-related maps and deployment charts” as well as lists containing details about Indian military personnel.“We made a good recovery from them,” Ravindra Yadav, joint commissioner of the Delhi police, said at a news conference on Thursday. “In Old Delhi, the zoo, any tourist spot, they would meet there and exchange documents.”Using diplomatic missions as a cover for intelligence-gathering is not unusual, even between friendly nations, nor is it unusual for the host country to discover them, said A. S. Dulat, a former chief of India’s Research and Analysis Wing. He called slipping intelligence officers into consular positions an “old trick.”But the public announcement and media clamor around Mr. Akhtar’s detention on Wednesday was unusual, Mr. Dulat said.“It’s been like that between India and Pakistan of late, everything is getting hyped,” he said. “Let me put it this way: If it was a Chinese or Russian or American, they would not bother too much.”Mr. Akhtar was carrying a forged Indian government identification card with a false name, but during “sustained interrogation,” the police said, he admitted that he was a Pakistani soldier, deployed by the Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence.Bhishma Singh, an investigator on the case, said Mr. Akhtar had been recruited as an intelligence officer three years ago and was living with his family on the embassy compound.“Mr. Akhtar was basically using the visa window for anti-India activities, as it had a public interface,” Mr. Singh said. Among those Mr. Akhtar cultivated were young women, Mr. Singh said, adding that Mr. Akhtar later used them “as honey traps to lure officers.”The police said that they had not ruled out the involvement of additional staff members from the mission.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In its Foreign Ministry statement, Pakistan said a staff member had been held for three hours before he was returned to the mission.“This act clearly reflects Indian actions to shrink diplomatic space for the working of the Pakistan High Commission,” the statement said, referring to the mission, the equivalent of an embassy. It added that the detention violated the Vienna Convention, an international treaty that sets parameters for diplomatic relations.Two Indians were also detained on suspicion of spying for Pakistan, Mr. Yadav said. The authorities said the spy ring had been active for the last year and a half.The announcement elated many Indians, frustrated at Pakistan’s failure to stem militant activity. Since then, the countries have exchanged daily allegations of cease-fire violations.In the last week, three Indian border guards and a 1-year-old boy were killed in “intense, constant” cross-border firing, said Dharmendra Pareek, deputy inspector general of India’s Border Security Force, in a telephone interview from the northern state of Jammu and Kashmir. He said India had killed seven Pakistani rangers and one militant.Pakistan summoned India’s second-ranking diplomat in Islamabad on Tuesday and Wednesday to lodge protests against cross-border firing that killed four civilians, including a toddler.Hari Kumar and Suhasini Raj contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »A statement from the Pakistani Foreign Ministry rejected the accusations as “false and unsubstantiated.”In a tit-for-tat announcement Thursday evening, Pakistan announced it would expel an Indian official posted in Islamabad, giving his family 48 hours to leave the country.Mr. Akhtar was detained on Wednesday, during what the police said was a rendezvous at the gate of the Delhi zoo, where two contacts were to provide information about Indian border deployments in exchange for money. The police said they recovered “secret defense-related maps and deployment charts” as well as lists containing details about Indian military personnel.“We made a good recovery from them,” Ravindra Yadav, joint commissioner of the Delhi police, said at a news conference on Thursday. “In Old Delhi, the zoo, any tourist spot, they would meet there and exchange documents.”Using diplomatic missions as a cover for intelligence-gathering is not unusual, even between friendly nations, nor is it unusual for the host country to discover them, said A. S. Dulat, a former chief of India’s Research and Analysis Wing. He called slipping intelligence officers into consular positions an “old trick.”But the public announcement and media clamor around Mr. Akhtar’s detention on Wednesday was unusual, Mr. Dulat said.“It’s been like that between India and Pakistan of late, everything is getting hyped,” he said. “Let me put it this way: If it was a Chinese or Russian or American, they would not bother too much.”Mr. Akhtar was carrying a forged Indian government identification card with a false name, but during “sustained interrogation,” the police said, he admitted that he was a Pakistani soldier, deployed by the Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence.Bhishma Singh, an investigator on the case, said Mr. Akhtar had been recruited as an intelligence officer three years ago and was living with his family on the embassy compound.“Mr. Akhtar was basically using the visa window for anti-India activities, as it had a public interface,” Mr. Singh said. Among those Mr. Akhtar cultivated were young women, Mr. Singh said, adding that Mr. Akhtar later used them “as honey traps to lure officers.”The police said that they had not ruled out the involvement of additional staff members from the mission.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In its Foreign Ministry statement, Pakistan said a staff member had been held for three hours before he was returned to the mission.“This act clearly reflects Indian actions to shrink diplomatic space for the working of the Pakistan High Commission,” the statement said, referring to the mission, the equivalent of an embassy. It added that the detention violated the Vienna Convention, an international treaty that sets parameters for diplomatic relations.Two Indians were also detained on suspicion of spying for Pakistan, Mr. Yadav said. The authorities said the spy ring had been active for the last year and a half.The announcement elated many Indians, frustrated at Pakistan’s failure to stem militant activity. Since then, the countries have exchanged daily allegations of cease-fire violations.In the last week, three Indian border guards and a 1-year-old boy were killed in “intense, constant” cross-border firing, said Dharmendra Pareek, deputy inspector general of India’s Border Security Force, in a telephone interview from the northern state of Jammu and Kashmir. He said India had killed seven Pakistani rangers and one militant.Pakistan summoned India’s second-ranking diplomat in Islamabad on Tuesday and Wednesday to lodge protests against cross-border firing that killed four civilians, including a toddler.Hari Kumar and Suhasini Raj contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »The United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the lawyers represented retailers with competing interests in the settlement, which was once valued at $7.25 billion, one of the largest in antitrust history. The judges pushed the suit back to a lower court.The settlement stemmed from a 2005 lawsuit in which retailers accused credit card providers of scheming to fix the price of processing fees, the money the card companies charge retailers for each transaction. The sides reached the settlement in 2012.Under the deal, merchants would give up their rights to sue in the future, regardless of whether they received a piece of the money. Merchants would also be allowed to charge higher prices when consumers paid with credit cards, which are typically more expensive for them to process than debit cards.But on Thursday, the United States Court of Appeals in Manhattan said that the merchants had been “inadequately” represented when the settlement was reached.The court said that both groups should not have been represented by the same lawyers, who stood to earn more than a half-billion dollars in fees, because the two groups of merchants’ interests conflicted with one another. Some merchants would want to maximize their cash payments, while others would want to “maximize restraints on network rules to prevent harm in the future,” the court wrote.“Class counsel stood to gain enormously if they got the deal done,” the court said in one of the opinions from the three-judge panel.K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer with Robins Kaplan, who had represented the merchants in the original case, declined to comment on the lawyer fees. Conflict-of-interest issues among groups of plaintiffs is “not uncommon” for these types of cases, according to Scott Wagner, a partner at Bilzin Sumberg who focuses on antitrust and price-fixing issues.The National Retail Federation, a trade group representing some of the country’s largest retailers, said it welcomed the ruling.“This ‘settlement’ was never a settlement on behalf of the retail industry but rather a back-room deal that failed to represent the interests of retailers,” said Mallory Duncan, the senior vice president and general counsel for the retail group, which joined in the appeal of the 2012 settlement.The National Retail Federation was not one of the plaintiffs in the original 2005 lawsuit. But the group grew concerned about how the settlement could affect millions of other merchants, some of whom are its members.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview, Mr. Duncan said that individual merchants would ultimately end up with an insignificant amount of money from the deal. The ban on surcharging customers for credit card payments had not really been lifted for the industry either, he said. Instead, the card networks just “rewrote the rules.”“Ninety percent of merchants still can’t surcharge, even if they wanted to,” he said.Processing fees, also known as swipe fees, have long been a point of contention in the retail industry. Merchants say these fees are too high, a result of price-fixing among credit card networks like Visa and MasterCard, which act as electronic information highways between merchants and the banks.The banks and the card networks have defended themselves for years, saying that the fees, in part, help to cover the costs of fraud.MasterCard and Mr. Wildfang both said they were “disappointed” by Thursday’s decision.“We believe we presented a clear case to the court that the settlement was fair and appropriate based on more than four years of negotiation and the close involvement of the district court,” MasterCard said in a statement, adding that it was reviewing the decision to determine its next steps.A lower court will now have to decide the terms of a new settlement, or whether to push the case to trial.Representatives for Visa did not respond to a request for comment.Go to Home Page »Supported byCustomers and retailers may have one less reason to dislike new chip-enabled debit and credit cards — if only by a little bit.Visa said on Tuesday that it would begin providing software to reduce the time people spend using new chip cards, which have small metallic squares on the front.The changes address one of the widespread complaints about the cards, that they take too long to process. The cards now have to be inserted into a slot for an extended period, irritating many shoppers used to swiping their cards and quickly putting them away.“We’ve definitely been talking to merchants about how we can speed things up,” said Stephanie Ericksen, the vice president for risk products at Visa. The upgrade will apply only to Visa cards for now.Visa said that the new software would allow customers to dip and remove their cards from payment terminals in two seconds or less. Customers will also be able to dip their cards before a cashier finishes ringing up all their items.Dipping a card, versus swiping it, has generated seemingly endless complaints about longer wait times. Many customers continue to swipe out of habit.The new security chips contain different data from the information on a magnetic stripe and they are intended to make it harder for thieves to create counterfeit cards. The new technology, known as E.M.V., stands for Europay, MasterCard and Visa.The retail industry has fought E.M.V. adoption, saying that it helps only the banks at an unjustified cost to merchants. On Oct. 1, Visa and MasterCard, two of the world’s largest payment networks, shifted much of the liability for counterfeit cards from banks to merchants who cannot accept E.M.V.Merchants who wished to upgrade were also required to get their new systems certified by the payment processors, which act as digital couriers between card issuers and merchants. Processors help a merchant’s payment terminal communicate with a bank, for example, by sending signals over electronic highways like Visa or MasterCard.Visa said the new software would not require merchants to get recertified. The company also said it was making the update available free to payment intermediaries like processors, terminal manufacturers and other technology partners. Visa said those intermediaries would be in charge of determining whether merchants pay for the upgrade.Avi Kaner, a co-owner of the Morton Williams grocery chain in New York, said in an email that he was still waiting to get his systems certified by payment processors.“If we cannot accept E.M.V., it doesn’t matter,” he said about the new software.Some retailers have already taken steps to reduce transaction times. Walmart, the nation’s largest retailer, shaved 11 seconds off its processing time by removing a prompt for customers to confirm a purchase amount, among other steps, according to a spokesman, Randy Hargrove.The new chip technology takes an average of eight to 12 seconds to process, according to one study by JDA Software Group, a retail software provider. Martin Reynolds, JDA’s vice president of retail solutions, said that the study was commissioned by a retailer but declined to say which one, citing client confidentiality.The study compared two different payment machines, and it accounted only for dipping and processing times, not any time spent fumbling with the correct payment method.Merchants can download the new software onto their existing payment hardware. The software is compatible with all existing payment devices, Ms. Ericksen said.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSA transition that executives promised would be seamless has turned into a customer service fiasco.Citigroup has logged more than 1.5 million customer service calls, according to Jennifer Bombardier, a spokeswoman for Citigroup.Costco’s social media pages are filled with thousands of scathing complaints. Many customers say their new cards have not yet arrived, and some report problems activating or using their cards or getting access to their accounts online.The service issues have confounded regular customers. Derek Gamble, a Costco shopper who called Citigroup on Thursday to ask why he hadn’t yet received his new card, reached a service representative but says he came away from the call feeling more puzzled than when he started.“The rep talked in circles for a while and said they’re doing all they can and that I should have a card in five to seven business days,” said Mr. Gamble, a lawyer in Temecula, Calif., in an interview. His request for a faster shipment was rebuffed. Until the card arrives, he says he’s holding off on his weekly Costco shopping trip.Many retailers offer branded credit cards, but Costco’s is uniquely powerful. The company made sales of nearly $114 billion last year to its 81 million members. For nearly two decades, it accepted no cards other than American Express at its retail stores.But last year, the companies said they would sever their relationship after a disagreement about renewal terms. “The numbers didn’t add up,” Kenneth I. Chenault, American Express’s chief executive, said in a presentation to investors.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Costco stopped accepting new card applications in November and has been working on its card transition plan for more than a year. But for customers, the switch came with an unusually abrupt deadline: As of Monday, their Costco-branded American Express cards stopped working for all new purchases, and customer information and account balances were transferred to Citigroup.Citigroup spent last weekend feverishly working to convert the millions of new cardholders it inherited onto its system.“Citi completed one of the single largest portfolio conversions in history,” Ms. Bombardier said. “We sincerely apologize to those who have been inconvenienced.”Costco representatives did not return calls seeking comment.The last major store-branded card switch, when Walmart moved its cards from Discover to MasterCard in 2014, was done in phases, and customers were able to continue using their existing cards until they received and activated their new ones.“There’s always going to be friction in these sorts of things, but the hubbub surrounding Costco is the biggest outcry that I can remember,” he said.He expects the storm to subside in a few days as Citigroup smooths out its problems, but customers are also facing other irritations at the cash register, namely chip cards.Go to Home Page »A transition that executives promised would be seamless has turned into a customer service fiasco.Citigroup has logged more than 1.5 million customer service calls, according to Jennifer Bombardier, a spokeswoman for Citigroup.Costco’s social media pages are filled with thousands of scathing complaints. Many customers say their new cards have not yet arrived, and some report problems activating or using their cards or getting access to their accounts online.The service issues have confounded regular customers. Derek Gamble, a Costco shopper who called Citigroup on Thursday to ask why he hadn’t yet received his new card, reached a service representative but says he came away from the call feeling more puzzled than when he started.“The rep talked in circles for a while and said they’re doing all they can and that I should have a card in five to seven business days,” said Mr. Gamble, a lawyer in Temecula, Calif., in an interview. His request for a faster shipment was rebuffed. Until the card arrives, he says he’s holding off on his weekly Costco shopping trip.Many retailers offer branded credit cards, but Costco’s is uniquely powerful. The company made sales of nearly $114 billion last year to its 81 million members. For nearly two decades, it accepted no cards other than American Express at its retail stores.But last year, the companies said they would sever their relationship after a disagreement about renewal terms. “The numbers didn’t add up,” Kenneth I. Chenault, American Express’s chief executive, said in a presentation to investors.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Costco stopped accepting new card applications in November and has been working on its card transition plan for more than a year. But for customers, the switch came with an unusually abrupt deadline: As of Monday, their Costco-branded American Express cards stopped working for all new purchases, and customer information and account balances were transferred to Citigroup.Citigroup spent last weekend feverishly working to convert the millions of new cardholders it inherited onto its system.“Citi completed one of the single largest portfolio conversions in history,” Ms. Bombardier said. “We sincerely apologize to those who have been inconvenienced.”Costco representatives did not return calls seeking comment.The last major store-branded card switch, when Walmart moved its cards from Discover to MasterCard in 2014, was done in phases, and customers were able to continue using their existing cards until they received and activated their new ones.“There’s always going to be friction in these sorts of things, but the hubbub surrounding Costco is the biggest outcry that I can remember,” he said.He expects the storm to subside in a few days as Citigroup smooths out its problems, but customers are also facing other irritations at the cash register, namely chip cards.Go to Home Page »A transition that executives promised would be seamless has turned into a customer service fiasco.Citigroup has logged more than 1.5 million customer service calls, according to Jennifer Bombardier, a spokeswoman for Citigroup.Costco’s social media pages are filled with thousands of scathing complaints. Many customers say their new cards have not yet arrived, and some report problems activating or using their cards or getting access to their accounts online.The service issues have confounded regular customers. Derek Gamble, a Costco shopper who called Citigroup on Thursday to ask why he hadn’t yet received his new card, reached a service representative but says he came away from the call feeling more puzzled than when he started.“The rep talked in circles for a while and said they’re doing all they can and that I should have a card in five to seven business days,” said Mr. Gamble, a lawyer in Temecula, Calif., in an interview. His request for a faster shipment was rebuffed. Until the card arrives, he says he’s holding off on his weekly Costco shopping trip.Many retailers offer branded credit cards, but Costco’s is uniquely powerful. The company made sales of nearly $114 billion last year to its 81 million members. For nearly two decades, it accepted no cards other than American Express at its retail stores.But last year, the companies said they would sever their relationship after a disagreement about renewal terms. “The numbers didn’t add up,” Kenneth I. Chenault, American Express’s chief executive, said in a presentation to investors.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Costco stopped accepting new card applications in November and has been working on its card transition plan for more than a year. But for customers, the switch came with an unusually abrupt deadline: As of Monday, their Costco-branded American Express cards stopped working for all new purchases, and customer information and account balances were transferred to Citigroup.Citigroup spent last weekend feverishly working to convert the millions of new cardholders it inherited onto its system.“Citi completed one of the single largest portfolio conversions in history,” Ms. Bombardier said. “We sincerely apologize to those who have been inconvenienced.”Costco representatives did not return calls seeking comment.The last major store-branded card switch, when Walmart moved its cards from Discover to MasterCard in 2014, was done in phases, and customers were able to continue using their existing cards until they received and activated their new ones.“There’s always going to be friction in these sorts of things, but the hubbub surrounding Costco is the biggest outcry that I can remember,” he said.He expects the storm to subside in a few days as Citigroup smooths out its problems, but customers are also facing other irritations at the cash register, namely chip cards.Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byEditorialCongressional leaders of both parties have questioned the nondisparagement agreements. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would revise visa laws to allow former employees to protest their layoffs. Beyond that, what Congress really needs to do is close the loopholes that allow H-1B abuses.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSMOSCOW —  The Russian Foreign Ministry has accused the United States of trying to bar Russian wrestlers from an upcoming competition and claims the U.S. is unfit to host international sports events.The ministry says the U.S. embassy in Moscow refused to arrange visa interviews for the Russian team ahead of the freestyle wrestling World Cup, which starts April 5 in Iowa City, Iowa.Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova says in a statement that the alleged visa refusal is "direct and open discrimination," adding that "it's clearly impossible to hold international competitions on American territory any more — they don't play fair."The wrestling World Cup is an eight-team tournament which serves as the first major global competition of the season.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — On the campaign trail, Donald J. Trump has excoriated the nation’s visa program for high-skilled workers as a job killer, pledging to end it with “no exceptions.” But his own companies have used it to bring in hundreds of foreign workers, including fashion models for his modeling agency who need exhibit no special skills.The little-known corner of the H-1B visa program for models has been controversial for years, questioned not only by Americans facing competition from foreign models but by technology companies whose engineering and scientific visas may instead go to men or women with no more specialized skills than their cheekbones.Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee for president, has said the H-1B program allows companies to import foreign workers to replace American workers at lower pay.Such questions have reinvigorated opponents of the H-1B visas for fashion models, shining a fresh light on the people who shaped it and used it — including Mr. Trump; Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who sponsored legislation to add fashion models to the H-1B program; and the disgraced former New York congressman Anthony Weiner, who tried to reshape it. Mr. Weiner’s wife, Huma Abedin, is a senior aide to Hillary Clinton.The Trump campaign did not respond to requests for comment.Legal authorization for a model is easier to attain than it is for most professionals. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services declined to say how government screeners evaluated applicants who were models on their “distinguished merit and ability.” Angelo A. Paparelli, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, said, “As the Supreme Court said: It’s like porn. You know it when you see it.”Since 2001, American companies have filed nearly 5,000 applications to hire fashion models from abroad, according to Labor Department data. Last year, 67 applications were filed for 76 models (employers can ask for more than one worker on an application). The high-water mark for fashion models was 2004, when there were more than 800 requests. Since then, the numbers have declined to fewer than a hundred a year on average, the data shows.Once the Labor Department approves an application, it is forwarded to the Citizenship and Immigration Services, which decides whether to approve the H-1B classification for the worker. The State Department then issues a visa.The immigration agency declined to say how many visas it had approved for fashion models.The H-1B program for fashion models has long been a source of controversy. The suit against Mr. Trump’s modeling management company in 2014 was filed by Alexis Palmer of Jamaica, who said that instead of being paid the $75,000 a year she had been promised, she received less than $4,000 over four years.The company found work for her just 21 days during the years she worked for Mr. Trump’s modeling agency, Ms. Palmer said in her lawsuit.Alan Garten, a lawyer for Mr. Trump’s agency, said Trump Modeling Management helped Ms. Palmer with the immigration process and fronted her the money to pay for it against future earnings.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“But she was never an employee, she was self-employed,” he said. “She hired us to be her manager. The way she was handled is standard across the fashion industry.”Judge Analisa Torres of Federal District Court dismissed the case this year, saying Ms. Palmer should have first exhausted the administrative procedures at the Labor Department or raised it in a state court.“This is not the end of this case by any means,” said Naresh Gehi, an immigration lawyer in New York representing Ms. Palmer, who added that the case was pending at the Labor Department.A broader controversy has been stoked by the technology sector. Businesses clamor for the H-1Bs, which are intended to help companies fill positions for high-skilled jobs when they cannot find Americans with the necessary qualifications. Trade groups for engineers and programmers complain that including models in the visa program eats into the supply of skilled scientists, engineers and other professionals they need. The visas are capped by Congress at 65,000 per year.Last year, it took just five days for the number of H-1B applicants to reach that limit, according to the Department of Homeland Security. The visas are initially approved for three years and can be extended for another three.“It is odd that fashion models are grouped in with visas for these high-skilled workers,” said Neil G. Ruiz, director for the Center on Law, Economics and Finance at George Washington University Law School. “And it makes you scratch your head that it’s the only H-1B category that does not require a bachelor’s degree.”Mr. Ruiz said that while the number of visas for models was small — fewer than 1 percent — it still affected the overall program because every visa granted to a model means one less goes to other workers in the H-1B categories.Fashion models, which were overlooked in the original 1990 immigration reform laws that created the worker category in the H-1B visa program, were added a year later by Mr. Kennedy, a liberal stalwart and pro-union Democrat.Other categories were created that allowed the universities and sports teams to bring in workers with “extraordinary ability” in the areas of science, the arts, education and athletics.In 2006, Mr. Weiner tried to move models into the category of actors and athletes but he was criticized after it was disclosed that a lawyer representing fashion models had sponsored a fund-raiser that added $10,000 for his failed campaign in 2009 to be mayor of New York City.In an interview, Mr. Weiner said he sought the change after the being approached by New York publishing and modeling industry representatives about the effect of having models compete for visas in same category as tech workers.“They had to jump through all these hoops for people who come in for a day or two at a time to do a photo shoot and then want to go back home,” he said. “Some people just got tired and said, ‘We’ll just go to Europe and do the shoots.’ It was creating a burden for the industry here.”Jeremy Bowers contributed reporting from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »Nearly all applicants for a visa to enter the United States — an estimated 14.7 million people a year — will be asked to submit their social media user names for the past five years, under proposed rules that the State Department issued on Friday.The proposal covers 20 social media platforms. Most of them are based in the United States: Facebook, Flickr, Google+, Instagram, LinkedIn, Myspace, Pinterest, Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter, Vine and YouTube. But several are based overseas: the Chinese sites Douban, QQ, Sina Weibo, Tencent Weibo and Youku; the Russian social network VK; Twoo, which was created in Belgium; and Ask.fm, a question-and-answer platform based in Latvia.But the new proposal would add a tangible new requirement for millions of people who apply to visit the United States for business or pleasure, including citizens of such countries as Brazil, China, India and Mexico.In addition, visitors traveling on diplomatic and official visas will mostly be exempted.As news of the plan emerged on Friday, so did criticism.“This attempt to collect a massive amount of information on the social media activity of millions of visa applicants is yet another ineffective and deeply problematic Trump administration plan,” said Hina Shamsi, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s National Security Project. “It will infringe on the rights of immigrants and U.S. citizens by chilling freedom of speech and association, particularly because people will now have to wonder if what they say online will be misconstrued or misunderstood by a government official.”Facebook said its position had not changed since last year, when it said: “We oppose any efforts to force travelers at the border to turn over their private account information, including passwords.”Along with the social media information, visa applicants will be asked for past passport numbers, phone numbers and email addresses; for records of international travel; whether they have been deported or removed, or violated immigration law, in the past; and whether relatives have been involved in terrorist activities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Maintaining robust screening standards for visa applicants is a dynamic practice that must adapt to emerging threats,” the State Department said in a statement. “We already request limited contact information, travel history, family member information, and previous addresses from all visa applicants. Collecting this additional information from visa applicants will strengthen our process for vetting these applicants and confirming their identity.”Last year, John F. Kelly, who was then the secretary of homeland security and is now Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, told members of Congress that his department was considering asking visitors for passwords and access to online accounts.“We want to get on their social media, with passwords,” Mr. Kelly told members of the House Homeland Security Committee. “If they don’t want to cooperate, then you don’t come in.”The new State Department requirements will not take effect immediately. The proposal set off a 60-day period for public comment, which ends on May 29.On Sina Weibo, one of China’s largest social media platforms, several users were critical of the plan.“Does it mean someone’s visa application will likely be rejected if he/she has been critical of the U.S.?” one wrote. “What about your sacred ‘freedom of speech?’”Another user wrote: “We Chinese have learned well enough the lessons to be drawn from isolation. Now it’s America’s turn.”Audrey Jiajia Li contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »The kind of red tape that risks leaving Sham with permanent disfiguration underlines the shortcomings of the efforts of Western governments to provide a coordinated and efficient response to a mass influx of Syrians and other refugees, according to lawyers.Spain’s Foreign Ministry said that Sham’s visa application had not been processed because it did not meet the required application criteria. A spokeswoman said the ministry could re-evaluate the infant’s case.Spain’s interior minister, Jorge Fernández Díaz, said this month that the country planned to welcome 1,000 migrants by the end of the summer.However, Spain has fast-tracked some special cases. Last month, the foreign minister, José Manuel García-Margallo, announced that the government was processing the application of Osman Ahmed, a 7-year-old Afghan who has cerebral palsy and who was in a refugee camp in Greece.However, Jörn Halling, a German lawyer with Reed Smith also working on Sham’s case, said that the Spanish Embassy in Amman, Jordan’s capital, had advised him that Spain’s resettlement program did not cover Jordan, which meant that the embassy could not process her visa.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sham and the rest of her family — her parents and three siblings — have received conditional approval to resettle in the United States. But their American applications are subject to background checks, with no date set for their completion. Furthermore, no American hospital has so far offered the free treatment that would now be available to Sham in Barcelona, Ms. Fleming said.Rubén Díaz, one of the directors of the Sant Joan de Déu hospital in Barcelona, said that in late March his doctors offered to perform the surgery Sham needed and provide six months of free treatment, but that the hospital was not involved in resolving the visa issue.“Part of the reasoning to use our center is that it would be easier to get here” from Jordan, Dr. Díaz said. “As it turned out, it has not, because of the visa problem.”The initial treatment in Barcelona would leave Sham needing more operations into her adult years, as her face continues to grow. But the first surgery is crucial “to prevent permanent disfigurement,” Ms. Fleming said. The city of Barcelona has also offered to cover all of the family’s expenses while Sham is in the hospital, she said.The advanced surgery Sham needs cannot be performed in Jordan, but she was examined there by doctors, including a visiting American craniofacial surgeon, David Matthews, to establish the urgency of her case.Ms. Fleming said that she and her colleagues were still studying alternatives to resolve the visa problem. The child’s family, she said, would be willing to relocate to any European country that could both guarantee their safety and provide Sham with the care she needs, even as they remain on the resettlement track for the United States. The family fled Syria for Jordan in 2013.“We understand every country is overwhelmed and lacking resources, but this is one case where we have identified resources, and it is just a problem of a visa and administrative roadblocks,” Ms. Fleming said.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.CAPE TOWN —  South Africa will speed up visa processes and lure major conferences in an effort to boost foreign arrivals by 40 percent by 2021, its tourism minister said on Friday.The new measures are part of a goal to attract five million additional travellers – four million international tourists and one million extra local holiday trips and will help limit the "blip" a major drought is having on South Africa’s top tourist draw card, Cape Town, said minister Derek Hanekom."I am bullish because there is huge growth potential," Hanekom told Reuters in an interview."On the international front conditions are very much in our favour so its going to be easier to achieve the four million part than the one million," he said.Tourism, which contributes more than 400 billion rand ($34 billion) to Africa’s most industrialized economy, or around 8 percent of GDP, is seen by government as key to help drive growth and reduce a stubbornly high unemployment rate.South Africa emerged from a recession last year but is struggling to grow its economy and less disposal income means locals are hesitant to travel.However, the long-haul destination still provides good value for money for foreign tourists attracted to its white beaches, iconic Table Mountain and wildlife safaris.Earlier this month, the World Travel and Tourism Council said travel and tourism would contribute around 424.5 billion rand to the overall economy in 2018, before rising by 3.5 percent a year to 598.6 billion or 10.1 percent of GDP in 2028.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Besides establishing a fund which is geared to help South Africa win more global conferences and exhibitions, Hanekom said home affairs officials were also developing online visa applications, as well as possibly producing them for tourists on arrival at airports."Of course the first prize for us and the easiest is when visitors from particulars countries don't need visas at all," he said.Hanekom said discussions with home affairs and foreign relations departments would consider granting more countries visa waivers for short trips, following success with visitor numbers from Russia which increased 57 percent last year.Tourism officials said current visa processes were putting off tourists from China, India and Nigeria, some of the world's largest outbound travel markets.(Reporting by Wendell Roelf; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle)Go to Home Page »LONDON —  Britain will look retrospectively at visas issued to wealthy foreign investors and consider whether action needs to be taken, interior minister Amber Rudd said on Wednesday when asked about Russians who had been granted them.Rudd was asked about 700 Russians who had come to Britain between 2008 and 2015 with a "Tier 1 visa", given to people who want to run businesses in Britain who have at least 50,000 pounds ($70,750) in investment funds."The Tier 1 was already reformed in 2015-2016 and it has been reduced by 84 percent since then," Rudd told a committee of lawmakers. "I have asked my officials to look at what reforms we may continue with and to take a look at previous ones over the past few years.""I have asked to look at the cohort of previous ones to see if there is any action that needs to be taken," she added.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Theresa May said it was right for Britain to examine whether that part of the visa regime was being used properly.(Reporting by Alistair Smout and Andrew MacAskill; editing by Stephen Addison)Go to Home Page »The European Commission said on Wednesday that member states will vote on a proposal to allow visa-free travel within Europe for citizens of Turkey if that country meets some requirements.Here are some of the questions surrounding the debate in Europe over how to deal with the migration crisis.More than one million migrants reached Europe last year, and the route across the Aegean Sea to Greece from Turkey, though not without risk, is one of the most direct for many migrants to reach the Continent.Cooperation with Turkey — which shares a border with Iraq and Syria, the homeland for a significant portion of migrants fleeing war and conflict — has been the most effective way to cut off the influx from the Middle East.However, there has been an increase in migrants using the more hazardous Central Mediterranean Sea route to Italy, although most of them are from Africa.Even if the visa-waiver proposal is ultimately approved, the chances of mass arrivals from Turkey appear slim. To qualify for entry, Turkish citizens would be required to hold passports that contain fingerprint and facial data embedded on a chip — passports that Turkey will not start producing until June.The extent to which the European Union is willing to compromise its principles in pursuit of a migration deal is a source of significant unease.Offering Mr. Erdogan a political prize like visa waivers strengthens his appeal and confers legitimacy even as he pursues actions that cannot be reconciled with the bloc’s views on human rights.“There is still work to be done as a matter of urgency, but if Turkey sustains the progress made, they can meet the remaining benchmarks,” Mr. Timmermans said on Wednesday.Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the European morning.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Dublin Regulation, which requires refugees to register in the European Union country in which they first arrive, penalizes countries by geography: It places a disproportionate burden on front-line states — namely Greece, but also Italy and Malta — to accommodate migrants.Because previous attempts to enforce the relocation of migrants have largely failed, the European Commission is proposing financial sanctions that would require countries that refuse to participate to pay €250,000, or about $290,000, for each refugee they do not accept as part of the quota (or “corrective allocation”).The European Union’s strategy is to allow for temporary suspensions of the open-border policy, for six months at a time, to restore it entirely at a future date.Right now, the prospect of another migrant influx makes open borders for some countries untenable. So Brussels is making an effort to reassure those countries that they can put checks in place if the influx is revived.Go to Home Page »ORLANDO, Fla. —  A Florida university student is being sent home to China because police say he exhibited "disturbing behavior," and bought a second assault weapon after coming to the attention of police.University of Central Florida Police say they spoke with 26-year-old Wenliang Sun in early February after he made unspecified "unusual statements" to a counselor.The Orlando Sentinel reports Friday he also stopped attending classes, dyed his hair and bought an expensive car. UCF Police Chief Richard Beary said these actions, taken together, raised alarms.Because he was not attending classes, his student visa was revoked and he was taken into custody last month. An immigration judge last week ordered him deported. He remains jailed awaiting deportation.Beary said investigators believe "we just saved a bunch of lives."Go to Home Page »Supported byLetterTo the Editor:Actually, the new name redresses a violation of the bilateral 1995 Interim Accord that was part of a series of similar violations by previous governments in Skopje, in an effort to forge an official state ideology at the expense of Greek cultural heritage.The Greek government has repeatedly demonstrated a solid will to reach a mutually acceptable agreement. The United States ambassador to Greece recently acknowledged the Greek government’s will to resolve the name issue.With Greece’s consent, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia gained European Union candidate status and secured visa liberalization.Greece is actively seeking to settle any pending issues in the Balkans based on mutually acceptable compromise, for the sake of enhanced regional security and stability.The writer is press counselor at the Embassy of Greece.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSIn a story April 1 about the Trump administration's treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must take effect, though the administration has not approved any applications and says it will rescind the program.A corrected version of the story is below:Trump says he wants skilled migrants but creates new hurdlesTrump wants the US immigration system to focus on skills instead of family ties, but his administration is making it harder on skilled immigrantsBy NICHOLAS RICCARDIAssociated PressIt may be a while before President Donald Trump gets another chance at creating a new, "merit-based" immigration system, a keystone of his four-part plan that Congress rejected last month. In the meantime, his administration is busy making it harder, not easier, for skilled migrants to come work in the United States.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program to admit foreign entrepreneurs who want to start companies in the United States. It is more aggressively scrutinizing visas to skilled workers from other countries. And it is contemplating ending a provision that allows spouses of those skilled workers to be employed in the U.S.The administration and its backers contend it's trying to fix flaws in the existing, employer-centric skilled immigration system while advocating for a complete overhaul of America's immigration system."The stuff that they're actually doing is not so much restricting skilled immigration as enforcing the law," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports reducing immigration. "They're rolling back some of the extralegal measures that other administrations have taken."A primary avenue for skilled immigrants to enter the United States is the H1B visa for specialty workers, which is heavily used by the technology industry. About 85,000 visas are issued annually in a lottery system. Some critics argue they are a way for companies to avoid hiring U.S. citizens; Trump himself has said H1B recipients shouldn't even be considered skilled.In 2016, two technology workers sued Disney, alleging 250 U.S. employees were laid off and many were forced to train replacements who were hired on H1B visas. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, saying Disney was following existing immigration laws.The Trump administration has increased its scrutiny of H1B applications, requiring renewals be submitted in person and asking for additional proof the workers are needed and are being paid top tier."This increase reflects our commitment to protecting the integrity of the immigration system," said Joanne Fereirra, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. She added that 92.5 percent of the visas are still approved, only two percentage points lower than under the Obama administration in 2016.Still, businesses have noticed a change."We've got employees that are going through the process, who have gone through such a level of scrutiny and interrogatory that is unprecedented," said Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which advocates for H1B visas and has had one of its own workers have to move back overseas because of delays in approving the requisite visa.The extra time with H1B visas is only part of the administration's changes to skilled, work-based immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Trump signed an executive order that directed all government agencies to "rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into the United States of workers from abroad" to ensure the maximum number of U.S. citizens have jobs. The order also called for shifting H1Bs from lower-paid workers to higher-paid ones who truly have skills that can't be obtained from the native workforce.The administration also moved to stop an Obama administration program that was about to start last year to let international entrepreneurs who start companies in the United States live in the country for renewable, 30-month stints. Though a judge in December blocked the government's effort prevent the program from taking effect, the Trump administration says it has not approved any of the about 10 entries it has received and still plans to end the program.Also in December, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security released its new regulatory agenda which included further, unspecified changes to the H1B program. The administration also indicated it will roll back the STEM OPT program expanded by President Barack Obama that lets international science and technology students work legally in the U.S. for up to three years.Meanwhile, the State Department said last week it is seeking to further enhance vetting of potential immigrants and visitors by requiring all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers — information that was previously sought only from applicants identified for extra scrutiny. The department estimates 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants will be affected annually.Akash Negi, 26, graduated last month with a master's in sciences and analytics from Pennsylvania's Harrisburg University of Science and Technology that he earned while working as a big data analyst at JP Morgan Chase. Negi moved to the United States after his father got a diplomatic visa as part of a job at the United Nations, but his legal residency doesn't include a work permit.He was able to work while a student but is waiting for his STEM OPT visa to remain employed, and is concerned Trump will gut the program.Negi noted he understands Trump's stated goals of protecting U.S. workers but says he's going about it incorrectly."Any country wants to protect its own citizens, but you don't just end the program when you don't have your own population trained," Negi said.The Trump administration has also signaled it may end another Obama-era program that allowed spouses of H1B visa holders to work legally in the U.S. Many of these people have been in the U.S. for years, sometimes long enough to have children who are now U.S. citizens, yet can face a decades-long wait for a green card. The prospect of being unable to work is a shock to them."I would like to make my own living. I am qualified and skilled," said Anushri Maru, 35, a business analyst in Houston, adding she's baffled her new home doesn't want her talents. "I'm not sure they understand that we are skilled immigrants."Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  Maziar Hashemi, a naturalized U.S. citizen who lives in Massachusetts, has been told by doctors that his best hope for surviving a rare form of blood cancer is a bone marrow transplant.President Donald Trump’s travel ban could make that impossible.Bone marrow transplants require a close match between donor and recipient. A few months after his diagnosis last September, Hashemi, 60, learned that his brother in Iran, Kamiar Hashemi,  was a rare 100-percent match. The only problem was Kamiar’s nationality.The latest travel ban, issued as a presidential proclamation and implemented on December 8 after months of legal wrangling, bars most travelers to the United States from Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea, as well as certain government officials from Venezuela. Although the ban allows for case-by-case waivers to be granted, including for medical need, Kamiar Hashemi has so far been denied a visa.Attorneys who regularly deal with visa issues say the waiver process is opaque. Visa applicants aren’t allowed to apply for waivers; they are simply granted or not without explanation. U.S. officials won't say how they make their decisions or how long they generally take.A U.S. State Department official told Reuters that since the ban took effect, more than 375 waivers have been approved but he declined to say how many total visa applications have been filed from countries covered by the ban. He said he could not comment on the specifics of Hashemi’s case.Kamiar Hashemi began the visa application process soon after learning he was a match for his brother. In February, the 57-year-old small business owner traveled to Armenia to be interviewed at the U.S. embassy there, since there is no embassy in Iran.Later on the day of the interview, Kamiar’s brother back in Massachusetts checked the status of the application on the State Department's website. A pop-up window announced in bright blue letters: "Refused."Waivers can later be granted to applicants initially refused for visas, according to the State Department, so Maziar Hashemi continued checking the website each day, but his brother’s status hasn’t changed. He hired an immigration lawyer, Mahsa Khanbabai, hoping she might smooth the way.‘TRANSPARENT AS MUD’The Trump administration has said travel restrictions are needed to protect the United States from terrorism.Critics have challenged the latest ban, as they did previous versions, saying that it discriminates against Muslims. Six of the eight countries included in the current ban are majority Muslim.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Under the current proclamation, waivers can be granted in cases where denying entry would cause undue hardship, when the individual is found not to be a threat and when their entry is in the national interest.The proclamation lists ten examples of situations in which an applicant might be eligible for a waiver. One reason mentioned is an applicant’s need for urgent medical care, something that comes close but doesn’t exactly fit the Hashemis’ situation, since it isn’t Kamiar Hashemi, himself, in urgent need.The State Department has declined to provide details of how waiver decisions are made beyond some general answers to frequently asked questions posted on its website. But a State Department letter obtained by Reuters earlier this month said "there is no waiver form to be completed" and that applicants who fall into the categories outlined in the proclamation "must be considered" for one.“The process is as transparent as mud,” said Hashemi’s attorney Khanbabai. “There are no clear guidelines. It’s difficult to figure out what the process is and who is actually doing the processing.”Nevertheless, Khanbabai submitted a packet of information on the Hashemis’ behalf to the embassy on March 19, including a letter from Massachusetts General Hospital explaining that a perfect match for a bone marrow transplant is very rare and could provide the only viable treatment for Maziar Hashemi’s Myelodysplastic syndrome.Worried about the ticking clock, Kamiar Hashemi looked into traveling to India to have his bone marrow harvested there and rushed to the United States, but that option was also thwarted.A non-profit organization trying to facilitate the transfer, Be The Match, said it had to pull out after its legal team concluded that Kamiar’s bone marrow couldn’t be exported to the United States because of U.S. sanctions on Iranian exports."Can you imagine that the cells of an Iranian needed in order to help a U.S. citizen are embargoed?" said Maziar Hashemi, a civil engineer who has lived in the United States since the 1970s."It is just unfair," he said in a phone interview. "I cannot wait much longer."(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Editing by Sue Horton and Paul Thomasch)Go to Home Page »“I recognize and understand the difficult position that the Indian government found itself, and regret that my trip has generated such unwarranted controversy,” Mr. Isa said in a statement.China has labeled Mr. Isa, who fled the country in 1994, a terrorist, accusing him of aiding violent separatists in Xinjiang. Mr. Isa has denied the accusations.After news of Mr. Isa’s planned trip to Dharamsala emerged last week, Chinese diplomats were livid. Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said, “Bringing him to justice is the due obligation of relevant countries.”Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.By Saturday, it appeared India had backed down. In a terse email to Mr. Isa, officials said that they were denying the visa because of “new factors that have come to our notice,” according to a copy of the message provided by Mr. Isa.Many people in India criticized the government’s decision to cancel Mr. Isa’s visa.Officials at the Indian Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi did not respond to a request for comment. The Indian Embassy in Beijing said it did not have any information.The episode appeared to be another indication of Beijing’s growing clout abroad.Sophie Richardson, China director for Human Rights Watch, said government leaders were increasingly acquiescing to China’s efforts to influence whom they met and whom they allowed into their countries.“One can’t help but wonder: What other decisions do those governments cede to Beijing, and are they not fearful of the longer-term consequences?” she wrote in an email.Go to Home Page »DUBAI —  Bahrain refused entry on Wednesday to a Danish lawmaker and an Irish human rights campaigner who were intending to visit a prominent Bahraini-Danish activist in jail, a Bahraini human rights group said.A government spokeswoman said Lars Aslan Rasmussen and Brian Dooley were refused entry because they had not followed Bahrain's visa procedures.Rasmussen, an MP for Denmark's Social Democrats and Dooley,  were due to visit Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, who played a leading role in pro-democracy protests in Bahrain in 2011 that were put down by the authorities. He is serving a life sentence after being convicted on charges of terrorism and attempting to overthrow the government.During the regional Arab Spring uprisings, Sunni-Muslim ruled Bahrain, a Western ally and home to the U.S. Fifth Fleet, was rocked by mass protests led by its Shi'ite majority which has long complained of discrimination.Since his imprisonment, the Danish government has made several calls on Bahrain to release Khawaja or to let him be extradited.A government spokesperson said: "Two individuals were denied entry to Bahrain this morning having failed to follow the country's clearly defined visa and immigration procedure.""Furthermore, those individuals are likely to have arrived in the full knowledge that their entry would be denied as a result of not following these procedures."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dooley works as an advisor for the Gulf Center for Human Rights, which Khawaja co-founded prior to his arrest with Nabeel Rajab, another leading activist jailed by the authorities.“We came to show that Al Khawaja and the other human rights activists in prison are not forgotten, and to remind the Danish government that it should be pressing much harder for his release," Rasmussen said, according to a BIRD statement.Bahrain is about to host its annual Formula One race, watched by millions around the world. The race has been held since 2004 with the exception of 2011 when the uprising forced its cancellation."Preventing members of parliament, human rights groups and journalists from entering the country shows how much the regime has to hide," Dooley said in the statement."Formula One fans planning to arrive this week should know what they’re getting into."(Reporting By Sami Aboudi; Writing By Maha El Dahan; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky)Go to Home Page »NEWARK — On the surface, the University of Northern New Jersey seemed legitimate. It had a website, with a seal featuring the Latin words “Humanus, Scientia, Integritas,” a list of business-oriented degrees offered and a promise of “an exceptional educational experience.”It was so exceptional it did not exist.On Tuesday, that operation resulted in the arrests of 21 people, the United States attorney for New Jersey, Paul J. Fishman, and Sarah R. Saldaña, the director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, announced at a news conference here.The people arrested were brokers who recruited foreign students who were mainly from China and India to an institution that they knew would not have real classes. The brokers, working with people posing as university officials, then charged the students in a scheme that allowed them to maintain their student visas and stay in the country, the government said. Some brokers also arranged, illegally, for work visas and jobs, the authorities said. Some of these so-called students, according to a law enforcement official, even used the fraudulent visas to get jobs at high-profile companies.Those arrested were mainly naturalized citizens and legal permanent residents, Mr. Fishman said. Six live in New York City, including three in Flushing, Queens.“Our message is pretty loud and clear,” Ms. Saldaña said in an interview. “We’re out there, we have intelligence to identify you, we’re going to find you and bring you to justice.”The brokers arranged student visas for the University of Northern New Jersey for a total of 1,076 people. Most of the “students” will ultimately have their visas revoked, Ms. Saldaña said.Mr. Fishman said all of the recruited students were already living in the United States, having initially obtained visas legally, but were looking for a way to stay. Many were living and working throughout the country.“All the defendants were pretty stunned about the charges,” said Michael Horn, whose client, Tajesh Kodali, 44, of Edison, N.J., pleaded not guilty. “They’re hopeful the truth will come out.”The operation, the government said, was a way to understand the extent of the criminal network behind visa fraud, including how students are recruited, how fake universities work and what happens after the students are enrolled.While the case exposed a network of fraud, it also exposed a gap in national security, the officials said on Tuesday. The brokers who negotiated visas did not do any background checks on their clients or their potential connections to terrorist organizations. Mr. Fishman said the United States government did vet the people who applied for student visas and did not find any threats to security.The official confirmed that one person did enlist, and that only one person was employed by Facebook, one person by Apple, two at Morgan Stanley and several at other prominent financial institutions.when we publish other stories on education in New York City.The University of Northern New Jersey opened in 2013, according to the complaints filed on Tuesday. The location was an office building in Cranford, N.J.The university may have been billed as an institution of higher learning, but no learning took place. It purported to offer undergraduate and graduate degree programs in areas like accounting, marketing and health care management. To lure recruiters, it was listed as state-licensed and certified by the Homeland Security Department. But there were no classes and no faculty members.No matter. “Once word got out, brokers descended on the school, clamoring to enroll their clients,” Mr. Fishman said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Homeland Security Investigations unit, which conducted the sting operation, had undercover agents accept calls from recruiters, according to several of the 14 complaints filed on Tuesday. These agents, in recorded telephone calls, warned the brokers that there would be no classes.A defendant named Chaun Kit Yuen, 24, responded, according to the complaint, “We’ve been doing this for years, no worries.”Some of the agents also obtained fraudulent work authorizations through the university in order to outsource their foreign national clients as full-time employees. A broker from Brooklyn, Syed Qasim Abbas, 41, who is an American citizen, owned an “information technology staffing company” in East Northport, N.Y., called Fastnet Software International, according to the complaint.He paid the university $6,000 to obtain 20 visas for skilled workers, known as H-1B visas, the complaint said. (The government never issued them.) He paid another $17,750 to the school for arranging the extension of student visas.Some brokers negotiated thousands of dollars of commissions from the undercover officials, one worth as much as $4,000, according to the complaint. Other brokers received illicit payments for placing students in jobs.About 1.2 million students are currently in the United States on student visas, a majority of whom are legitimately attending universities, government officials said.There have been several high-profile student visa fraud cases in recent years from California to New York, which represent a security concern for a government under pressure to screen visa applicants for possible terrorism ties.Although the officials would not discuss how many fraudulent schools might actually be operating, Mr. Fishman said they were “too prevalent.”For the recruiters, he added, “the University of Northern New Jersey was another stop on the ‘pay to stay’ tour.”See More »Go to Home Page »BOSTON —  A Chinese woman pleaded guilty on Monday to cheating on a college entrance exam, becoming the latest person to admit wrongdoing amid U.S. probes into international students who use imposters to gain admission to American universities.Leyi Huang, who had been attending Pennsylvania State University using a student visa, pleaded guilty in federal court in Boston to conspiring to defraud the United States, according to court records.Prosecutors said Huang in March 2016 arranged to have a paid test taker sit in her place and take the TOEFL, the English-language exam used to assess foreign applicants, after she failed to achieve the minimum score needed to attend Penn State.While she faced up to five years in prison, U.S. District Judge Dennis Saylor sentenced Huang, 21, to time served after she agreed to be deported, according to court papers. Her lawyer did not immediately respond to a request for comment.As China has become increasingly affluent, more Chinese students have been enrolling in U.S. colleges and universities, attracted by the prospect of a prestigious American education and good jobs.The number of Chinese students studying in the United States in the 2016-17 academic year rose by 6.8 percent to 350,755, the Institute of International Education reported in November.According to court papers, Huang admitted to authorities that she paid $3,000 to have someone take the TOEFL exam for her and, following instructions from a broker, mailed her Chinese passport to an address in Massachusetts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That passport was used by Yue Wang, a Chinese student at Hult International Business School in Cambridge who prosecutors said took the TOEFL on behalf of Huang and at least two other Chinese women seeking to gain admission to U.S. universities.In each case, the women were issued student visas based on their admission to universities, prosecutors said.They said that as a result of the scheme, Huang defrauded the United States by impeding the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in its administration of a program that sets standards for an international student to obtain a visa.Wang, Huang and the two other women were arrested on immigration-related charges in May 2017. Like Huang, they later pleaded guilty and were sentenced to time served after agreeing to be deported.(Reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Sandra Maler)Go to Home Page »The company said it believed that the new Fidelity Rewards Visa Signature card would be attractive to a wider group of people, including the coveted millennial generation, generally viewed as people born from about 1980 through the ’90s. Visa cards are more broadly accepted by merchants than American Express cards, which was one of the big drivers behind the change.“We think usage of the card will go up, which will help build customer relationships,” said Ram Subramaniam, president of Fidelity’s retail brokerage business. “It’s a key value add-on to what we bring to the customer.”Few credit card issuers manage to sustain generous rewards programs because it is hard to make them profitable; their costs are not always covered by the fees merchants pay. Fidelity’s current rewards program has paid out more than $1 billion in rewards since 2003, when it was first introduced. Fidelity has acknowledged that in the past it paid for some of the rewards. But executives declined to say whether this new partnership would improve the card’s profitability.Visa was accepted at 9.5 million locations at the end of 2014, according to The Nilson Report, a newsletter that tracks the credit card industry. That compares with the 6.9 million merchants that accept American Express. Fidelity Investment Rewards American Express has about 550,000 cardholders, representing about 2 percent of Fidelity’s 24 million customers. They will be issued new Fidelity Rewards Visa Signature cards by July. Until then, consumers can continue using the American Express cards. U.S. Bank will acquire the existing $1.7 billion portfolio of outstanding balances.In addition to returning 2 percent on all purchases, the new card does not charge an annual fee. The new card will continue the policy of not putting caps on rewards or limits on spending. The Fidelity Visa card also does not require cardholders to spend in certain categories, like restaurants or gas.Cardholders can also opt to redeem their points for other rewards, like statement credits, merchandise, gift cards or travel, but the exchange rate means this is not as lucrative as getting cash back.Go to Home Page »MELBOURNE, Australia — South Africa’s foreign minister said Monday that the Australian government had retracted comments by its home affairs minister suggesting that South Africa was not a “civilized country” because of its treatment of white farmers.Mr. Dutton’s comments, as well as his suggestion that the farmers faced a “horrific circumstance,” drew fury in Pretoria, where government officials quickly demanded a retraction.South Africa’s minister of international relations and cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, said that Australia’s prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, and foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, had retracted Mr. Dutton’s comments and assured South African officials that they were “not in line with Australian immigration policy.”Mr. Turnbull’s office did not immediately respond to a request seeking confirmation of Ms. Sisulu’s account, which did not indicate when or how the retraction took place.With his comments on South African farmers, Mr. Dutton was wading into a volatile, racially tinged debate. South Africa’s long-governing party, the African National Congress, proposed the land expropriation amendment because most South African farmland remains under white ownership more than 25 years after the end of apartheid.In an initial response to Mr. Dutton’s comments, Ms. Sisulu said that nongovernmental organizations had been distributing inaccurate statistics about the killings of white farmers and sowing panic.On Tuesday, Mr. Dutton’s office released a statement countering Ms. Sisulu’s assertions that the Turnbull government had retracted his comments.“The statement does not accurately reflect the prime minister or minister for foreign affairs’ position on this matter,” the statement said. “There was no rebuttal of the words of Minister Dutton.”Mr. Dutton’s comments on the farmers drew sharp condemnation from refugee advocates who, citing his perceived indifference to nonwhite asylum seekers who are being held on Manus Island and Nauru, saw him favoring certain refugees because of their race.“Refugee advocates found Dutton’s comments so alarming because we have a fundamental belief in a nondiscriminatory immigration policy,” said Jana Favero, who works with the Asylum Seeker Resource Center, which is based in Australia.“The comments that Dutton made about how ‘they would integrate’ and that ‘they’re the sort of people we want coming to Australia’ insinuates that there are the wrong kind of people coming to Australia,” she added.While Mr. Dutton’s remarks drew widespread criticism, they also struck a chord among some white nationalists for whom the plight of South African farmers had become a rallying point.The New York Times sent journalists into a contested detention camp in Papua New Guinea to investigate Australia’s refugee policy, and the resistance rising against it.In late January, Lauren Southern, a far-right Canadian commentator, published a trailer for her upcoming documentary “Farmlands” on the killings of South African farmers that featured dire warnings of an impending race war. The trailer carried the tagline “CRISIS. OPPRESSION. GENOCIDE?”The issue has also been covered at length on AltRight.com, a website run by Richard B. Spencer, the American white nationalist.“I believe the humanitarian programs’ credibility comes from the fact that it is nondiscriminatory and that each application is assessed on its merits,” she said. “That’s been the case under the Turnbull government and as far as I’m aware, there are no plans to change that visa program.”In the wake of Ms. Sisulu’s remarks about the retraction, the Australian Foreign Ministry released a statement saying the country’s visa system did not favor certain races.“The prime minister and the ministers for foreign affairs and home affairs have been clear and consistent in reiterating that Australia’s current humanitarian visa program is nondiscriminatory, with each application assessed on its merits,” the statement said. “The program can accommodate those fearing persecution.”See More »Go to Home Page »Turkey has very broad terrorism laws, which the Europeans fear are being used by Mr. Erdogan to crack down on his opponents. In fact, Mr. Erdogan recently said the government should widen the definition of terrorist to include journalists and academics who are deemed by the authorities to have provided support for terrorists.But on Friday, Mr. Erdogan proclaimed with typical defiance that Turkey “will not change its antiterror law for the sake of a visa deal” that would allow the 75 million Turks easier access to Europe for three months at a time.“We will go our way,” Mr. Erdogan said. “You go yours.”The episode was a fresh reminder of the political costs of holding together a deal that has helped the European Union to avoid a replay of the chaotic tide of migrants that nearly collapsed its system of open borders last year.A look at how Turkey has taken an increasingly authoritative turn under the rule of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.But the continuing viability of the deal was called into question this week with the ouster of the Turkish official who has been most closely associated with it: Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. He was pushed out on Thursday by Mr. Erdogan, in what was widely interpreted as a move by the president to tighten his hold on power.Two weeks ago, Mr. Davutoglu was the only Turkish leader who accompanied European Union officials as they visited Gaziantep, on the Turkish-Syrian border, to see how the deal was working.“It is clear that Davutoglu was the decisive man for the deal,” said Sylke Tempel, editor in chief of Internationale Politik, published by the German Council of Foreign Affairs.Echoing that thought, the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung noted Friday that “this means that the success of the deal will now be even more vulnerable to Erdogan’s whims.” European leaders should be “on red alert for rocky relations with Ankara in the future,” it said.Carl Bildt, the former Swedish foreign minister, appeared to be pessimistic about the future of the migration pact now that Mr. Davutoglu has resigned.On a visit to Italy, the chancellor noted cautiously on Friday that “we have made good progress with the deal with Turkey. The European Union — at least Germany and Italy — is ready and stands by its commitments. We hope of course that that is mutual.”Whether Europe and Turkey can continue to work closely together may now rest on whether Mr. Davutoglu’s replacement also embraces a vision of Turkey with one foot in Europe or Mr. Erdogan’s authoritarian bent, said Volker Perthes, a Middle East expert and director of the government-funded German Institute for International and Security Affairs.“For now, I don’t think the costs are actually higher for Merkel” than for other European leaders, Mr. Perthes said, although “she is more personally involved in a deal which pro forma is between the E.U. and Turkey, not the member states.”Under the deal, Turkey has already begun taking back refugees who had made their way to Greece, and the flow of migrants has virtually stopped.The aim of robbing smugglers of business and preventing refugees risking their lives across the Aegean has thus been achieved, noted Ms. Tempel of the German Council on Foreign Relations.But the other aspect of the deal — influencing Turkey’s internal development through conditions for travel and eventual European Union membership — is much more fragile, Ms. Tempel suggested.If anything, it is Mr. Erdogan who has used the deal to extend his influence. That became clear for Ms. Merkel after a German satirist lampooned the Turkish leader in a crude poem that prompted Mr. Erdogan to sue under a 19th century law on offending foreign leaders.Amid suggestions that she was effectively championing censorship, the law forced Ms. Merkel to allow the suit to go forward. She also acknowledged that she had made a mistake in initially passing judgment on the poem, agreeing with Mr. Davutoglu that it was deeply offensive.With Mr. Davutoglu now leaving office, Ms. Merkel and the rest of Europe are left hoping for a replacement they can do business with.Mr. Erdogan’s tough talk on Friday is probably less worrying than the fact “that we are losing one of Erdogan’s team who had a very strong interest in linking Turkey to Europe,” Mr. Perthes said. “I think he really wanted to do the deal with the Europeans, achieving this collaboration would have been a big victory for him, also as a person.”In Turkey, some analysts said they believed Mr. Davutoglu had to go because he was cutting an increasingly independent and popular figure.Aykut Erdemir, a former opposition lawmaker and senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, said, “Erdogan feared that Davutoglu could use his international profile as leverage against Erdogan to carve an autonomous sphere of action domestically.” He added, “Such a power-sharing arrangement is not something that Erdogan can tolerate.”Mr. Perthes, the German analyst, noted that Mr. Erdogan often surprises, and not always negatively. He expressed hope that a new prime minister might be appointed with a mandate to finish the visa and other deals with Europe.Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the European morning.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Manfred Weber, a German lawmaker of Ms. Merkel’s conservative bloc who leads the center-right European People’s Party at the European Parliament, voiced wariness about granting visa-free travel to Turkey unless it also makes concessions.“The resignation of the Turkish prime minister is not a good signal,” Mr. Weber said by email. The European Parliament would only hold a vote on visa waivers “if all criteria are met.”One of the five conditions Ankara must still meet is to revise laws and practices to balance the fight against terrorism with respect for human rights.Cem Ozdemir, a leader of Germany’s Greens and among the country’s best-known politicians of Turkish descent, said Mr. Davutoglu’s departure “underscores how much Erdogan is trying to change Turkey into a one-man state.”It showed, he said, that Mr. Erdogan is the only negotiating partner who matters and “that you can only bet moderately on the reliability of Ankara.”Ms. Merkel, he added, had long evinced little interest in Turkey and opposed its bid to join the European Union.Now, he said, “it is not without irony that when Turkey is going completely in the wrong direction, she is the one opening the gates” to Europe. Ms. Merkel’s lack of Turkish allies outside the government, Mr. Ozdemir said, “is coming back to bite her.”Alison Smale reported from Berlin, and James Kanter from Brussels. Ceylan Yeginsu contributed reporting from Istanbul.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The easiest way to gain entry into the United States is not to walk across the border in the dead of night. It is to write a check.A visa process enacted by Congress in 1990 to create jobs and pump billions of dollars into the economy has evolved into a program that federal investigators and some prominent lawmakers say has become a risk to national security and an easy mark for abuse, particularly from China.But EB-5 has been the subject of increasing scrutiny since investigators uncovered numerous cases of fraud, discovered individuals with possible ties to Chinese and Iranian intelligence using fake documents and learned that international fugitives who have laundered money had infiltrated the program.“It’s no secret that the program has long been riddled with corruption and national security vulnerabilities,” said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and a frequent critic of the program.“I don’t believe that America should be selling visas and eventually citizenship,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who wants to terminate a part of the program that allows foreign applicants to invest through regional development centers that pool investor money. “The right to immigrate should not be for sale.”The Department of Homeland Security, led by Secretary Jeh Johnson, said it was taking steps to address the issues raised by senators like Mr. Grassley and Ms. Feinstein. “The secretary intends to do all he can within his legal authority to do so,” said Marsha Catron, a spokeswoman for the department.The foreign investor visa has defenders. One is Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, along with some in the Obama administration who say it has delivered billions of dollars into the American economy: $8.7 billion and 35,140 jobs since Oct. 12. But federal auditors have found that in many cases, those numbers are “not valid and reliable.”Supporters of the EB-5 program, including real estate developers, spent as much as $3 million to help defeat legislation sponsored by Mr. Grassley and Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, intended to address fraud and national security concerns.Mr. Schumer, who opposed the Grassley-Leahy legislation, said he supported national security and fraud reforms to the EB-5 program.New criticism of the program surfaced recently when a former federal investigator, Taylor Johnson, a special agent with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said she was fired after raising questions about the vetting of individuals involved in a development project in Las Vegas. She filed a complaint with the Merit Systems Protection Board, a quasi-judicial agency that protects whistle-blowers, saying she was fired because she exposed national security concerns. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Ms. Johnson’s termination was unrelated to her EB-5 investigation.But her accusations have prompted investigations by the Office of Special Counsel, an independent agency that protects federal employees from reprisal, and the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General.Foreign investors can gain green cards by investing $1 million in a new business or $500,000 through one of nearly 800 regional development centers across the country that pool EB-5 money and are certified by the federal government. Most EB-5 visa seekers — about 95 percent — invest through these regional centers, which are largely unregulated. In some cases, the investors can also gain citizenship.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The program has grown rapidly, to nearly 9,000 conditional visas last year, of which 80 percent were issued to Chinese investors, from 64 EB-5 visas in 2003. Investigators have found that security risks have risen rapidly with the growth.A Government Accountability Office report released in August found that the agency could not be sure that money used for the visas was not coming from “the drug trade, human trafficking or other criminal activities.”Officials at Homeland Security Investigations, a division of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said they were concerned that those who prepare overseas documents “may try to use increasingly sophisticated methods to circumvent” the program. In a 2013 memo, the agency suggested that the EB-5 regional center program end because “there are no safeguards that can be put in place that will ensure the integrity” of the regional center model.Court records and law enforcement documents show that several individuals with questionable backgrounds have used the program to launder money and gain entry to the United States.A growing concern among United States intelligence and law enforcement officials is that foreign government agents might be trying to infiltrate the program to conduct economic espionage or gain access to technology that is banned from export.A 2013 Homeland Security investigation found that an individual involved in the EB-5 program who was later arrested in connection with exporting electronics to Iran had ties to Iranian intelligence operatives who might try to abuse the programs to enter the United States.Officials from Citizenship and Immigration Services acknowledged that the EB-5 program has had problems, but they said the agency had made a number of changes to address them, including shutting down 35 troubled centers since 2014.And Homeland Security officials said they were being more proactive in tracing the sources of foreign investor income, including establishing working relationships with Chinese government officials and conducting overseas visits to verify applicants’ sources of income.Mr. Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he was not convinced the changes were enough.See More »Go to Home Page »SAN FRANCISCO — Federal authorities have arrested two founders of a virtual currency that raised $32 million from investors last year and won an endorsement from the boxer Floyd Mayweather.Centra raised $32 million last summer and fall in a so-called initial coin offering, a method of fund-raising in which companies sell custom virtual currencies. The Centra team said at the time that the Centra token would give investors access to a new virtual currency exchange and a virtual currency debit card that would operate on the Visa and Mastercard networks.The S.E.C. said in its complaint that the Centra team had never received approval from Visa and Mastercard and had misled investors on several other counts. The S.E.C. said that several of the executives listed on the Centra website were fictitious.Lawyers for Mr. Sharma and Mr. Farkas did not respond to emails seeking comment Monday evening. The authorities did not charge a third man who had been listed as a Centra co-founder, Raymond Trapani.Initial coin offerings, or I.C.O.s, emerged suddenly last year to become one of the most popular ways for start-ups to raise money, with investors pouring more than $6 billion into such offerings. But I.C.O.s operate in a regulatory gray area, and that has drawn a swift blowback from authorities around the world.The Centra founders appear to have been the first people arrested because of a coin offering. In addition to the S.E.C. complaint, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York brought criminal charges against Mr. Sharma and Mr. Farkas — including conspiracy to commit securities fraud, securities fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and wire fraud.Mr. Farkas had a flight reservation to leave the country on Sunday but was arrested before he could board the plane, according to the S.E.C. complaint.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The complaint alleges that the men “engaged in an illegal unregistered securities offering and, in connection with the offering, engaged in fraudulent conduct and made material misstatements and omissions designed to deceive investors in connection with the offer and sale of securities in the Centra I.C.O.”The chairman of the S.E.C., Jay Clayton, has said that most tokens offered through coin offerings should be categorized as securities and registered with regulators, which few have done.Mr. Sharma announced that he was leaving Centra after the Times article was published last fall, but the company has continued its operations and said this week that it would release the “Centra Roadmap 3.0” at a conference in South Korea.After the arrests were announced on Monday, the price of Centra’s token on virtual currency exchanges crashed and the administrators of a Centra chat room on the Telegram messaging app expressed confusion.“The admins have no more info then you,” an administrator named Tomo wrote to the other users.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  The Trump administration has sharply curtailed a once-common practice of granting long-term reprieves to immigrants targeted for deportation, a Reuters analysis of court records shows, adding to an already huge backlog of cases in U.S. immigration courts.The trend underscores how the Trump administration's broad crackdown on illegal immigration has sometimes had unintended consequences. Attorney-General Jeff Sessions had vowed to reduce that case backlog, but the government's aggressive opposition to reprieves has caused the opposite to happen.Under a procedure known as “administrative closure,” judges can indefinitely shelve deportation cases of immigrants who have lived illegally for years in the United States but have not committed serious crimes and have strong family or other ties in the country. The immigrants are not granted full legal status and their cases can be reopened at any time. In the interim they can remain in the country and often are eligible to work legally.The practice became more common after the Obama administration instructed prosecutors in 2011 to prioritize immigration cases involving criminals. Closures accelerated further after a 2012 decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals, which gave judges additional authority to close cases.As a result, the number of shelved cases rose steadily for several years. In the last year of the Obama administration, more than 56,000 such cases were closed, the Reuters analysis of court records found.In the first year after Donald Trump became president, the trend was sharply reversed, with about 20,000 cases closed, 64 percent fewer than the previous year. (Graphic: http://tmsnrt.rs/2DKhoAJ)Immigrant advocates say some of the most vulnerable immigrants - victims of domestic violence and unaccompanied minors - could potentially be deported even though they are eligible for a visa, because the courts will not set their cases aside.In January, Sessions announced he will review a recent decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals and consider whether judges should have authority to close cases. He sought legal arguments from all sides as he considers the matter.In a December speech, Sessions skewered the Obama administration for closing “nearly 200,000 pending immigration court cases without a final decision” over a five-year period. “We are completing, not closing, immigration cases,” he said.About 542,000 cases were pending three weeks before Trump took office in January 2017, according to a Department of Justice estimate. Since then, the backlog has grown by another estimated 145,000 cases, a 27 percent increase.In comparison, the Obama administration added an average of 41,000 cases to the backlog each year, according to data from the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a New York-based research organization.OPPOSING VIEWSTrump was elected on a platform of tightening border security and speeding the removal of people living in the country illegally. Early in his presidency, he announced that all categories of immigrants in the country illegally would be considered targets for deportation.Justice Department spokesman Devin O’Malley declined to comment on Reuters’ findings and on when Sessions might conclude his review of whether judges can close cases.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Groups advocating stricter immigration enforcement have long opposed the policy of administrative closure.“We see this as one more example of attempts by the Obama administration to work around the rules of law,” said Michael Hethmon, senior counsel with the conservative Immigration Reform Law Institute in Washington.In a legal filing in the Sessions' review, the American Bar Association cautioned that “withdrawal of administrative closure ... would have profound and long-lasting consequences on the operation of the immigration adjudication system and the lives of those who must proceed through it.”Supporters of the policy also say it allows judges to focus on cases involving criminals and ones in which an immigrant has little possibility of gaining legal status. They note that many of the closed cases involved immigrants who had applications pending for legal status, through asylum claims, marriages to citizens or other means.RUNNING FROM THE GANGSAfter gangs shot her father, paralyzing him and placing him permanently in a wheelchair, Jennifer Mendoza fled Honduras by herself in 2016. She was 10 years old.She was detained after crossing the border, placed in deportation proceedings and held for four months at a facility for unaccompanied minors in Texas until she could be reunited with her mother, Ruth. The two applied for a U visa, which is granted to undocumented immigrants who are victims of violent crime and who help law enforcement try to catch the perpetrators.In February this year, Mendoza moved to close her deportation case while she waited for a decision on her visa. The immigration court judge agreed, but the government lawyer objected and appealed. The case is now pending at the Board of Immigration Appeals.Mendoza’s lawyer, Vicky Dobrin, said the case shows how aggressively the government is fighting closures. Prosecutors used to routinely support closing cases like Mendoza's, said Dobrin.“Within a few months they were starting to oppose everything,” she said.During the last four years of the Obama administration,  prosecutors appealed less than one percent of all case closures. Since Trump took office in January 2017, ICE prosecutors have appealed decisions to close cases 10 times more often, Reuters found.Ashley Tabaddor, president of the immigration judges’ union, said the pushback from prosecutors has meant more work for judges.“The case is going to take much longer and is going to take more resources,” she said.(Reporting by Reade Levinson; Editing by Sue Horton and Ross Colvin)Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorIf you’re an American citizen who has vacationed in Paris or Rome, your trip was probably significantly simplified by the Visa Waiver Program, an agreement between the United States and 38 mostly European countries that lets millions of travelers visit one another’s countries without a visa.In December, Congress amended this program by passing the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, or H.R. 158. The amendment prevents citizens of these 38 countries who are also citizens of Iran, Syria, Sudan and Iraq from entering the United States without a visa, and also requires visas for citizens who have visited Iran, Sudan, Iraq or Syria since March 2011, whether they went for tourism, business, humanitarian work or to see family.It was initially unclear what enforcement would look like. Not anymore. While no one is being banned from entering the United States, the new law is making travel much more complicated for many people. In January, the Iranian-British BBC journalist Rana Rahimpour and her young daughter found themselves barred from a New Jersey-bound flight from London. Dozens of Iranian dual nationals have since reported similar problems, from a German-Iranian engineer headed to a conference in San Francisco to a British citizen who complained about having to cancel travel plans because he’d visited his sick grandmother in Iran. Even The Times’s Tehran bureau chief, Thomas Erdbrink, is among H.R. 158’s casualties. “I’m no longer allowed to travel to the @nytimes headquarters without a visa. America, it was fun while it lasted,” the Dutch citizen tweeted.Given the surge in Islamophobic rhetoric in the United States over the past six months, it isn’t surprising that Congress singled out citizens of (and even visitors to) predominantly Muslim countries for extra scrutiny. Americans are rattled by recent attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif. The Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump at one point even proposed a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims’ entering the United States. It’s a shameful response, but a predictable one.The surprising thing about H.R. 158 is the way it treats some dual nationals as second-class citizens, ignoring their mixed heritage or their decision to build lives abroad while denying them rights and privileges their compatriots can enjoy. This is un-American.In asserting that a foreigner with even a tenuous connection to four blacklisted countries is automatically not trustworthy enough to set foot on American soil without extra vetting, Congress makes a set of faulty assumptions: that having ties to these four countries makes any individual automatically suspect; that the four targeted countries pose more of a risk than, say, Pakistan or Saudi Arabia, which have exported extremists and radical ideology yet remain conspicuously absent from the list; and, crucially, that no matter what choices a person has made, they should remain bound to their or their parents’ birthplace forever.Indeed, the ability to start over is one of the principles on which America was founded — but apparently, that’s a worldview that Iranian, Syrian, Iraqi and Sudanese citizens aren’t entitled to.The politicians behind this bill ignore the fact that naturalization is typically tied to a conscious desire to live in, contribute to and become part of a new community. They don’t consider that many dual nationals of Syria, Iran, Sudan and Iraq may have fled political or military violence, studied abroad or simply chose to start anew.In fact, dual citizenship has long been an aspiration for many ambitious and wealthy Middle Easterners who feel — understandably, it turns out — that without a Western passport, they cannot work and travel freely and without discrimination. Before changes to the visa waiver program, an Italian daughter of Syrian nationals, or a French Iranian in exile, could present their European papers at any American port of entry and be treated as what they are: Europeans. Now a completely innocent person with a parent born in one of the designated countries can be branded guilty by association. H.R. 158 erases distinctions between foreigners who have perhaps never have left their country of origin and dual nationals who might never have set foot in it at all.Of course, citizenship is not always a choice. Some dual citizens of Iran, Sudan, Syria or Iraq have parents from two different countries. Others are automatically considered citizens by virtue of their heritage. H.R. 158 ignores the practical difficulty of renouncing one’s citizenship: You can’t just burn your passport and be automatically rid of your national associations, whether you’re Iranian, Israeli or American.A group of Democratic members of Congress have suggested softening H.R. 158, eliminating the restrictions based on ancestry and creating provisions to exempt traveling humanitarian workers, journalists, researchers and medics. “Fundamentally, people seeking entry into our country should be evaluated based on the specific security risk that they themselves pose — not where their parents are from,” reads their proposal. That’s a good start. The Obama administration later said that such exemptions may be granted, but only on a case-by-case basis — a statement to which some Republican politicians immediately objected.All countries should do their best to stop people who pose a genuine security threat, regardless of what papers they may carry. But ascribing guilt by association isn’t the way to do it. Our world may not be borderless, but it is full of dual and triple citizens whose numbers are likely to grow. The assumption that every human life can be reduced to an allegiance to one country is old-fashioned; it’s also painfully provincial. Basing a security policy on an outdated philosophy is unlikely to make us safer. It will have the unfortunate effect of making everyone’s world smaller.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe latest blunder in the government’s management of a special visa program for Afghan interpreters was fixed this week.In recent months, some Afghan interpreters were stunned to learn that their visa applications had been denied as a result of the way officials at the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security were interpreting a change to the eligibility criteria Congress made last year.Last fall, lawmakers established that as of September 30, in order to qualify for resettlement in the United States, interpreters would need to provide evidence that they had worked for American personnel in Afghanistan for at least two years. In the past, they had to prove only one year of service.Inexplicably, the government began applying the two-year standard to applicants who had submitted petitions long before the rule changed.There are two main stages in the process, which often takes years. Applicants must first submit a petition at the embassy in Kabul. Those who get the green light there may then submit a visa application with the Department of Homeland Security. The change could have disqualified hundreds of the more than 10,000 applicants with pending cases.“As the authors of that provision, we urge you to reconsider your interpretation as it is wholly inconsistent with Congressional intent and would unfairly and wrongly disqualify hundreds of deserving applicants,” Senators Jeanne Shaheen, Jack Reed and John McCain wrote in the letter.Testifying before the Senate recently, Mr. Kerry did not defend the retroactive implementation of the rule, which he called “grossly unfair and dangerous.”He said State Department lawyers were reviewing the matter and that he hoped there would be a prompt resolution to the problem.On Monday, the State Department notified Congress that the issue had been resolved.Interpreters who submitted applications with the embassy before Sept. 30 will have to prove that they worked for the American government for one year, not two, the State Department said in an emailed statement. It said officials were reviewing all cases that had been rejected solely as a result of the two-year criterion and would “proactively reach out to these individuals” to get their cases back on track.Congress has tangled with the bureaucracy numerous times since it passed the Special Immigrant Visa program in 2009.During the early years of the program, the State Department only approved a smattering of cases. It rejected some applicants by sending them letters saying they posed unspecified security risks. Many applicants waited for years without news about their petitions.This year, Visa and Dell are investing an estimated $3 million to help update the Girl Scouts’ digital cookie platform. The funding has gone toward adding games, videos, quizzes and music to the digital platform, as well as to providing workshops about math and technology, part of the companies’ interest in promoting an increased number of women in the technology industry.“It’s the perfect marriage between technology and a premier leadership program that teaches digital, social and money skills to girls,” Ellen Richey, Visa’s vice chairwoman of risk and public policy, said of the company’s providing technology and training for the cookie program. The added features are meant to encourage more girls to take part in the annual cookie drive, which raises money for scout activities and helps them learn skills like marketing, setting goals and budgeting. Scouts can take in-person orders using a mobile app, or invite customers to visit a personalized website.This is Visa’s initial collaboration with the Girl Scouts, and its Visa Checkout payments system can be used for processing online cookie sales. Visa declined to put a specific dollar amount on its involvement, which includes employee volunteer time.Dell, which began its relationship with the Girl Scouts in 2012, helped create an app for the digital cookie website, and committed more than $2.5 million, including donating hundreds of computer tablets to underprivileged scouts so they can take part in the cookie program. By 2018, Dell hopes to supply nearly 4,000 girls from underprivileged communities with laptops and tablets, according to Trisa Thompson, the company’s vice president for corporate responsibility.“Girl Scouts is creating the next set of entrepreneurs. We want to help equip the work force of tomorrow,” she said. “If you catch girls young enough, you can spark the fire.”One of those girls is Olivia V. Cranshaw, 13, of Manhattan, a top seller in the New York area. She has been selling Girl Scout cookies since she was in the first grade and adapted quickly to the digital format.She recently made her own video, showing her rock climbing on a Girl Scout expedition last fall and talking about her goal — selling 1,500 boxes of cookies this season — as well as her plan to direct the money she earns to cancer research. Girl Scout troops get to keep around 10 to 20 percent of cookie proceeds to spend on projects, donations or trips. A box of cookies costs around $4, depending on the locale.The video, she said, allowed her “to tell people a little bit about myself. That I play soccer and have a black belt in martial arts.” The expanded cookie platform, she said, “has been a very helpful tool for reaching out to my grandmother in Virginia, my grandmother in Florida and friends in different places.”Last year, she sold 1,647 boxes of cookies, up from the approximately 200 boxes she sold her first year, when she set up shop outside her primary school.Despite its corporate funders, the Girl Scouts is facing some internal turmoil about whether financial literacy and entrepreneurship should be so dominant in the century-old organization.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Membership is now at 1.88 million girls, slipping some 6.2 percent from last year, and down from 2.1 million three years ago.Some girls have publicly expressed unhappiness about the emphasis on cookie sales. In November, five girls in Santa Rosa, Calif., tried to join the Boy Scouts, saying they wanted to take part in physical activities such as camping and climbing rather than Girl Scout activities like selling cookies.Anna Maria Chávez, chief executive of the Girl Scouts, said that technology is essential to the organization’s future.“We are doubling down on technology,” she said. “More digital features will encourage more girls to participate in online cookie sales, and we are introducing online tools to make it easier and faster to recruit scouts and adults, including simplifying the process to become a girl scout.”Last year, 160,000 scouts started using the digital cookie program. Still, about a million fewer boxes over all were sold in 2015 than 2014. But Ms. Chávez said she hoped sales, which were just under $800 million in last year’s cookie season, would rise when more scouts were able to set up their own cookie websites.To encourage participation, the organization solicited feedback from girls who sold cookies last year and created new features like the “Cookie Booth Bounce” game, which is meant to teach scouts budgeting and decision-making skills, to address their input, Ms. Chávez said.Both Dell and Visa are advertising their contributions by placing their names — in the familiar green of the Girl Scouts — on the digital cookie website, as well as on the home page for the mobile app.The companies are also contributing volunteer employee hours for events like a workshop last July where eight female Visa staff members trained a group of girl scouts in cookie program website design, how to conduct a successful customer sales pitch and target marketing. At another Visa workshop in September, girl scouts tested various payment innovations, including Visa’s Checkout and other choices like Samsung Pay.At Dell, Ms. Thompson, who noted the company had a number of former girl scouts in its ranks, is not deterred by concerns about the cookie program.“Dell wants to scale up its commitment to find more opportunities for mentoring and volunteering with the girls, including remotely, as well as distance-learning opportunities,” she said. “We’re in the infancy of our efforts.”See More »Go to Home Page »MOSCOW —  The niece of Sergei Skripal, a former Russian spy poisoned in Britain with his daughter, says she plans to travel to England and try to bring back Yulia, Skripal's daughter, to Russia.Viktoria Skripal, the niece, told state TV on Wednesday evening that she had applied for a British visa, but that she was unsure whether British authorities would allow her to see her cousin Yulia, or her uncle Sergei, who were poisoned in Salisbury in a March 4 nerve agent attack.The attack left the Skripals in a critical condition, but on March 29 the hospital where they are being treated said Yulia was getting better, while the BBC, citing sources, said she was "conscious and talking"."I currently have one objective: to fly there and take away Yulia, at least Yulia," Viktoria Skripal said, adding that Yulia had always been very distant from politics. "It's a lot more complicated with Sergei [Skripal]."She said she was in regular contact with Russia's ambassador to London, Alexander Yakovenko, and that he had helped her obtain a Russian passport to travel.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She said British authorities had given her no assurances she would be able to see Yulia even if she arrived at the hospital and that it would be up to Yulia if a meeting took place.Viktoria Skripal made the comments on Rossiya-1's 60 minutes show where pundits and lawmakers cast the nerve agent attack as part of an elaborate British plot to besmirch Russia.Britain has blamed Moscow for the chemical attack, something Russia denies.The case has plunged East-West relations into their worst crisis since the Cold War, with Britain and its allies expelling around 130 Russian diplomats and Moscow responding with its own expulsions.(Editing by Andrew Osborn)Go to Home Page »SOFIA, Bulgaria —  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday voiced hope that a difficult period in relations between Turkey and the European Union is now in the past.Erdogan spoke after talks with European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker, European Council President Donald Tusk and Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov in the Bulgarian Black Sea resort of Varna."I hope that we have left a tough period in the relations between Turkey and Europe behind us," Erdogan said and voiced hope that "a first step was taken here toward restoring trust with Europe."He also said that EU membership was a "strategic goal."Tusk said that the summit's purpose was to "continue the dialogue in really difficult circumstances.""Our meeting today demonstrated that while our relationship is going through difficult times, in areas where we do cooperate, we cooperate well," Tusk said.He acknowledged that no concrete compromise or solution had been achieved at the summit, but expressed hope that such would be possible in the future."Only progress on these issues will allow us to improve the EU-Turkey relations, including the accession process," he added."We reconfirm our readiness to keep up the dialogue and conversation and work together to overcome current difficulties with a view to unleashing the potential of our partnership," Tusk said.On migration and support for refugees, Tusk said that the EU and Turkey remain very close partners."I would like to express our appreciation for the impressive work Turkey has been doing, and to sincerely thank Turkey and the Turkish people for hosting more than 3 million Syrian refugees these past years," he said."The EU has lent substantial support to improve the livelihood of these refugees, and this evening we reaffirmed the European Union's unwavering commitment to continue this support," Tusk said.He also said that while the EU understands Turkey's need to deal effectively with its security, it is concerned that some of the methods used, undermine fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It would be a mistake for a Europe that claims to be a global power to keep Turkey outside of expansion policies," Erdogan said.Borissov said that "I think that before the end of our EU presidency (the end of June) another EU-Turkey summit will be held."In response to European criticism of its cross-border operation to drive out Syrian Kurdish militia from the northwestern Syrian border enclave of Afrin, Erdogan said Turkey expected European backing. He added that Turkey intended to continue with its operations as long as necessary."Our operations against terrorism do not just contribute to our and the Syrians' security, but to Europe's security as well," Erdogan said. "On sensitive issues such as the struggle against terrorism, we don't expect unnecessary criticism but strong support."On Cyprus, Erdogan reiterated the Turkish Cypriot community's rights to Cyprus' resources and said the EU had "nothing to contribute" to the dispute as long as it does not maintain a "fair" approach.The summit was held amid an array of issues that have strained ties, including a dispute between Turkey and EU member Cyprus over energy exploration in the Mediterranean.Turkish warships have prevented a drillship from carrying out exploratory drilling on behalf of Italian company Eni southeast of Cyprus, in a move that the EU criticized.Turkey objects to "unilateral" gas searches by ethnically divided Cyprus' Greek Cypriot-run government without the direct involvement of breakaway Turkish Cypriots. The Cyprus government says a gas search is its sovereign right and will benefit all citizens.Erdogan pressed his European leaders to grant Turkish citizens visa liberalization to allow them to travel to certain European countries without visa restrictions."We told the EU side, that it needs to complete its work on this issue... This should not be turned into a political issue, it should not become an issue that shakes the trust of our people," he said.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said Canadian-based mining company Kinross Gold Corp agreed to pay $950,000 to settle civil charges that it failed to ensure its payments in Africa were not being used to bribe government officials.The SEC said in a statement Monday the company did little to verify payments to politically connected consultants and vendors - often made in cash - in Ghana and Mauritania were being used for their stated purpose.For example between 2012 and 2015, Kinross paid a Ghanaian consultant $1,000 in cash per work visa he helped obtain for company staff, without detailing just what this former government official did to help expedite the process, the SEC said.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compels companies to maintain book keeping practices aimed at preventing bribery.Louie Diaz, a Kinross spokesman, said in an email that the SEC had made no findings that bribes had been paid, but rather targeted shortcomings in "timeliness and maintenance of our internal controls in West Africa, which we have strengthened and improved."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As part of the civil settlement Kinross did not admit or deny wrongdoing but pledged to improve its accounting and compliance practices, Kinross said in a statement.The Justice Department notified Kinross that it had closed its parallel criminal investigation last year, Kinross said in a statement.(Reporting by Joel Schectman; editing by Andrew Hay and Lisa Shumaker)Go to Home Page »BERLIN —  The number of failed asylum seekers who could not be repatriated from Germany because they lack valid documents jumped 71 percent in 2017 compared with the previous year, the interior ministry said on Monday.Around 65,000 failed asylum seekers were granted temporary permission to stay in the country in 2017 because they could not be repatriated due to their lack of identity papers, a ministry spokesman said, up from 38,000 in 2016.Germany has been trying to speed up such repatriations since Anis Amri, a Tunisian awaiting deportation, killed 12 people at a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016.  Amri's deportation had been delayed because he had no valid passport.Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision in 2015 to welcome more than a million migrants has provoked a popular backlash and increased support for the far-right Alternative for Germany party.Migration policy was one of the most disputed issues for Merkel's conservatives and the center-left Social Democrats in renewing their coalition this month.The number of people who applied for asylum fell in 2017, however, coming in well below the maximum 220,000 agreed on by the coalition parties.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The largest numbers of failed applicants who could not be repatriated because they had no papers were from India (5,743), Pakistan (4,943), Afghanistan (3,915) and Russia (3,828),  publishing group Funke Mediengruppe reported, citing an interior ministry internal report.The nationalities of nearly 3,800 applicants were registered as "unclear", including people such as Palestinians and Kurds who did not have a country to which they could be deported, the report said.Cooperation between German authorities and the embassies of the countries of origin of failed applicants, to issue  substitute passports, was going poorly in many cases, the report said.Earlier this month, Europe's top migration official, Dimitris Avramopoulos, said the European Union wanted to tighten visa requirements for applicants from countries that were not cooperating enough on migrant deportations.(Reporting by Riham Alkousaa; editing by Andrew Roche)Go to Home Page »WELLINGTON —  New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Thursday she was considering a travel ban on some Russian citizens in response to a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain that the British government has blamed on Moscow.New Zealand has not joined the United States and other allies in expelling Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning, but would consider restricting Russians entering the country."I've now asked MFAT (Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade) to advise me on whether there are people who should be the subject of visa exclusions for New Zealand as well," Ardern told Radio New Zealand.The United States said on Monday it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, joining governments across Europe in punishing the Kremlin. In total, 100 Russian diplomats were being removed, the biggest Western expulsion of Russian diplomats since the height of the Cold War.Ardern had previously said that unlike other intelligence partners, there were no Russian spies present at the Russian embassy in New Zealand for her government to expel.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Winston Peters told Parliament on Wednesday that most of Russia's spying activity on New Zealand took place from offshore.In 2014, the previous National government had slapped travel sanctions on around 20 Russians and Ukrainians to protest Russia's annexation of Crimea in eastern Ukraine.(Reporting by Charlotte Greenfield; editing by Grant McCool)Go to Home Page »The travelers are not barred from the United States, but they will have to go through the more rigorous regular visa application process to enter the country.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The administration’s plan would provide limited exemptions to those who have to travel to any of the seven countries as diplomats or for military service. Additional exemptions could be applied for humanitarian reasons or for journalists. The secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, also could make additional exemptions if he determines that such a waiver is in the security interests of the United States.Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, has accused the administration of violating the law. “Despite these positive steps, I still have grave concerns that the administration is not implementing this law as Congress intended and plans to waive important security screening requirements to appease countries like Iran,” he said in a statement. “The president must faithfully adhere to the law — it’s his duty to the Constitution and to ensure the security of the American people.”About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less. About 20 million tourists use the program each year.Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialCongress now appears likely to reach a budget deal to keep the government functioning without treating as bargaining chips hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants brought to the United States when they were children. It also appears, though, that President Trump will consider undoing his threat of deportation for these young “Dreamers” only if Congress considers the first deep cuts to legal immigration since the 1920s.The changes the president is demanding stem from a nativist, zero-sum view that what’s good for immigrants is bad for America. That view runs counter not just to the best of American tradition and principles, but to evidence of what’s best for the country.The programs targeted by Mr. Trump are designed to make legal immigration more diverse and humane. One is the lottery system that offers the chance for visas to people from countries that are underrepresented as sources of American immigrants; the other is family-based immigration, which offers visas to close relatives of citizens and legal residents.Mr. Trump has said that the family reunification program — which he and other immigration opponents prefer to call “chain migration” — opens the floodgates to “virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives.” In fact, relatives other than spouses, parents and minor children are subject to annual caps and country quotas, so that, today, the backlog is almost four million applicants, most of them facing many years of waiting to get a visa. Mr. Trump would allow no new applicants other than immediate family members, and even these would no longer include parents. Imposing these restrictions and ending the diversity visa lottery would cut in half the number of legal immigrants.Politicians have wrestled for decades with how to deal with immigrants who are in the United States illegally — now around 11 million people. But immigration in itself has been widely regarded as good for America and for the American dream. The preponderance of evidence shows that immigrants help the economy grow. They are more likely to own businesses or to start businesses than the native-born; of the 87 privately held companies currently valued at more than $1 billion, 51 percent had immigrant founders.There are questions worth examining and debating about whether the United States ought to admit more skilled immigrants and what criteria it uses to screen applicants. But such a debate can’t unfold in the shadow of Mr. Trump’s threat to imminently expel the Dreamers. So what is Mr. Trump really after?Members of Congress know better, and they are aware that there are sensible measures that would clear the immediate hurdle and produce a bipartisan deal. Senators John McCain, the Arizona Republican, and Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, have offered a stopgap bill that would end the threat to the Dreamers while strengthening border security. Nothing about diversity visas or family-based migration, nothing for the wasteful wall.That makes sense. The way we deal with legal immigration should not be changed without a thorough, honest debate.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSFor the past year, chief executives have often talked about the new sense of moral responsibility that corporations have to help their communities and confront social challenges even when Washington won’t.Here’s an idea.What if the finance industry — credit card companies like Visa, Mastercard and American Express; credit card processors like First Data; and banks like JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo — were to effectively set new rules for the sales of guns in America?Collectively, they have more leverage over the gun industry than any lawmaker. And it wouldn’t be hard for them to take a stand.PayPal, Square, Stripe and Apple Pay announced years ago that they would not allow their services to be used for the sale of firearms.“We do not believe permitting the sale of firearms on our platform is consistent with our values or in the best interests of our customers,” a spokesman for Square told me.The big financial firms don’t even have to go that far.If Mastercard were to do the same, assault weapons would be eliminated from virtually every firearms store in America because otherwise the sellers would be cut off from the credit card system.To be clear: Those three banks won’t let you use your credit card to buy Bitcoin, but they will happily let you use it to buy an AR-15-style semiautomatic rifle — the same kind of gun used in mass shootings in Parkland; Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex.Visa spokesmen did not reply to several emails seeking comment. A spokesman for Mastercard sent a boilerplate statement that expressed “disgust with recent events, including last week in Florida.”“Our payments network is governed by standards that have been established over time,” the statement said. “Chief among these is that we do not and will not permit merchants to engage in unlawful activity on our network.” He said the company would continue to talk to customers and lawmakers about its policies.If Visa and Mastercard are unwilling to act on this issue, the credit card processors and banks that issue credit cards could try. Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, which issues credit cards and owns a payment processor, has talked about how he and his bank have “a moral obligation but also a deeply vested interest” in helping “solve pressing societal challenges.” This is your chance, Mr. Dimon.And here’s a variation on the same theme: What if the payment processing industry’s biggest customers — companies like McDonald’s, Starbucks, Apple, Amazon, AT&T, CVS and others that regularly talk about “social responsibility” — collectively pressured the industry to do it? There’s a chance that some of the payment processors would stop handling gun sales. Perhaps their voices would help push one of the banks to step out and lead?Is all of this a pipe dream? Maybe, but I spent the last 72 hours calling and emailing a handful of chief executives to discuss these ideas. None wanted to speak on the record, because it’s a hot-button topic. But all applauded the idea and some said they had already been thinking about it. A few, I discovered later, called their peers to begin a conversation.At least two executives said a reason that they haven’t been more outspoken yet is that they fear reprisals from the N.R.A. and other gun supporters — not just in the form of boycotts that could affect their bottom line, but also actions that could imperil the safety of their employees.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Perhaps the biggest stumbling block to an approach like this are companies like Walmart, which has huge sway over the financial industry. While Walmart stopped selling assault rifles in 2015, it might look askance at any policy by a bank issuer or credit card company to limit the kinds of products it sells.Critics of using the finance industry to influence gun sales might argue that such a move would be discriminatory against gun retailers. But gun sellers are not a protected class, like age, race, gender, religion or even political affiliation. This would be a strictly commercial decision.Another critique is that it is impossible to prevent every shooting, no matter how guns are restricted. And the banks’ actions would affect millions of their own law-abiding customers, effectively dictating what they can and cannot buy.The most troubling aspect of having the finance industry try to restrict gun sales is that it would push the most dangerous guns into an untraceable world where sales would depend on cash. That’s true. All things considered, though, it would make it considerably harder to even find such guns.There are other sectors of the finance industry that could step up. For example, Lloyd’s of London is the favored insurance company for gun shows. It could pull out.None of this is a panacea. But it’s a start. It takes leadership and courage — exactly what these executives say they have. If they don’t want to back up their words with actions, the next time there’s a school shooting that prompts a conversation about gun companies, it should also include the financial complex that supports them.See More »Go to Home Page »We’ve all had those scares, but fortunately, Michael Black returns after a fairly long absence to help us find our cards. We just have to rifle through a few crossword entries to locate them.Mr. Black offers us a set of three seemingly disparate theme entries and a revealer at 59A.This is a nice way to start our solving week, although I wonder if circling or shading the credit card name squares might have made this more of a Monday.22A: What an odd clue for a Monday. The actor John RITTER was way better known for “Three’s Company,” “Ally McBeal” and as the voice of “Clifford, the Big Red Dog” than he was for a movie that didn’t do very well and came out nearly 30 years ago to boot. “Actor John of ‘Problem Child’” strikes me as more of a mid-to-late-week clue.48A: Saying a silent “thank you” that this wasn’t BETOGAED. TOGAED is not a great entry, but if you’ve seen the classic college life movie “Animal House,” you will get this.4D: The reggae artist INI Kamoze is one to know, not just because of his danceable music, but also because of his crossword-worthy name.A lot has happened since my last publication — I became a father, I made my way on air as a news anchor and sports announcer, and I met Will Shortz.Since I have more on my plate nowadays, I don’t submit as often as I once did, but if a good idea crosses my mind, I will try to put it to paper.This idea just sort of popped into my head one day. I thought it was worth trying it out, but admittedly, I had trouble figuring out theme answers for VISA and DISCOVER. Maybe ELVIS ANDRUS for VISA? Maybe if this were a crossword in “Baseball Digest.”Truth is, the suggestion box under the Google search bar is what really helped me with these two. I began typing “ELVIS A” to see what would come up and did the same for “DISCO VER.” The results I found seemed like legit answers, and Will apparently agreed.A couple of cool things I realized recently with this puzzle: By total coincidence, the TEX in VORTEX crosses into RITTER, which is neat. Also by total coincidence, PAPI is at 34-Down, and Big Papi’s number was 34 (my favorite jersey number).Oh, and I’m sure there will be nit-pickers out there who will find fault in my lack of MASTER CARD, but that just wasn’t going to happen. As the commercial says, that’s for everything else.Thanks for helping me find my cards, Mr. Black.Your thoughts?See More »Go to Home Page »MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico —  The Mexican government began handing out transit or humanitarian visas to people in a caravan of Central American migrants, and said the procession of 1,000 or so migrants that drew criticism from President Donald Trump had begun to disperse.Some migrants who awoke at the camp Wednesday said they would try their luck at requesting asylum in the United States, others in Mexico.Elmer Zelaya Gomez, 38, from eastern El Salvador, has been sleeping with his wife and three children aged 7, 13 and 14 on the soccer field under blankets as they wait for temporary transit visas from Mexico to continue to the US border. He hopes to request asylum and join relatives in New York."We didn't leave our countries just because we wanted to," Zelaya Gomez said. "It's for the safety of our children."Like many, he had joined the caravan — which was never expected to be so big, and never planned to go all the way to the border — because there was safety in numbers.Now, the family faces the prospect of travelling solo; the caravan is scheduled to make its last stops this week at a migrants rights symposium in the central city of Puebla, and end in Mexico City."It seems a little complicated, with the robberies, kidnappings, and all of that," Zelaya Gomez said. "It's a little scary, to travel without the caravan."Organizer Irineo Mujica said, "We will try to find a better way of doing our caravans" in coming years. "We didn't anticipate, or want, a caravan of this size."The caravan is an annual, symbolic event held around Easter each year to raise awareness about the plight of migrants and has never left southern Mexico, though some participants then continue north on their own.Trump's strong criticism of the caravan and Mexico's supposed permissiveness in allowing it to proceed, have confused and befuddled families here, who deny they are a threat. Many say they never intended on going all the way to the United States after the end of the "Stations of the Cross" caravan. Some are seeking asylum in Mexico itself.Even coordinators of the caravan seemed to misunderstand the debate in the U.S. when Trump's endorsed a "nuclear option" for pushing funding for his border wall through Congress. They told worried families Tuesday that the U.S. president had floated the idea of using a nuclear weapon against the caravan of mostly women and children who have fled violence in Central America.The Mexican government said in a statement late Tuesday that its immigration policy "is not subject to pressure," but noted the caravan "began to disperse by decision of the participants."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It said 465 migrants had asked for transit visas and 230 had gotten them, and another 168 were likely to get some sort of visa to stay in Mexico.Though the caravan is uncomfortable — the migrants cook meager, donated rations on fires and sleep under the stars — they said risks they have taken should be an indication of how unsustainable their circumstances are back home. Hondurans predominate in this year's caravan, but it includes families from Guatemala and El Salvador as well.Sitting on a thin foam pad and trying to corral her sons, 2-year-old Jonathan and 6-year-old Omar, Gabriela Hernandez wondered aloud at what Trump must think of them."I see it as something really sad, because I don't understand how a child this age can make things difficult for him," said Hernandez, a 27-year-old who is two months pregnant.She would like to get into the U.S., where she has a cousin in Houston. Crime in Honduras was so bad that she decided to embark on the difficult a journey across several international borders with two young asthmatic sons, the younger of whom is now sick and on antibiotics.Late Tuesday, the first migrants began receiving documents from Mexican immigration authorities. Some give them 20 days to transit the country on their way to the U.S. border with the stated goal of applying for asylum. Others got papers in a first step toward a humanitarian Mexican residency visa for especially vulnerable people or a start to the application process for asylum in Mexico.Mayra Zepeda, 38, of Honduras, said that once she gets documents to cross Mexico, she and her husband will continue their journey toward the border city of Tijuana. She said they hope to find better paying jobs there and aren't planning to try to cross into the U.S.The couple left Honduras in December after incumbent President Juan Orlando Hernandez was declared the winner of a contested election. The factory where she made T-shirts for export closed due to the weeks of instability that followed the election, she said.She and her family stopped in the Mexican town of Tapachula at the Guatemala border for three months and she worked in a restaurant. When the caravan came together there they saw it as a good opportunity to make a move with safety in numbers.On Tuesday afternoon, she cooked a cauldron full of sliced squash and eggs over an open fire for the caravan's security team, volunteers who keep an eye on things."Honestly, I want to be Mexican," Zepeda said. "We're not going to cross. We're just going to stay here."Go to Home Page »The F.B.I. discovered the man, Naif Abdulaziz M. Alfallaj, only recently, when the authorities matched his 15 fingerprints to those taken from a document captured in Afghanistan, the officials said. The document was a five-page application for the Farooq camp, where four of the Sept. 11 hijackers trained.He apparently filled out the application in September 2000, when he was a teenager, the officials said, well after Al Qaeda had made its intentions of attacking the United States and its allies known to the world. Anyone who tried to join the camp would have known that Al Qaeda was a terrorist organization, law enforcement officials said. The United States military recovered the document at a Qaeda safe house in Afghanistan in December 2001, prosecutors said, who added that the document had an emergency contact for Mr. Alfallaj’s father in Saudi Arabia.Typically people who applied to the camp filled out what was known as a “mujahedeen data form.” They needed an invitation to join the camp and a reference from someone known and trusted by Al Qaeda. Trainees learned how to use weapons and explosives at the camp. After training, camp attendees fought with Al Qaeda or the Taliban in Afghanistan. Osama bin Laden and his top deputies frequently visited the camp.Mr. Alfallaj, 34, used a fraudulent visa to take private flying lessons in October 2016 in Oklahoma, according to federal court records. Noncitizens are required to submit fingerprints as part of the licensing process. The Federal Aviation Administration revoked his license last year after the F.B.I. made the discovery.Mr. Alfallaj was arrested Monday and made an initial appearance in federal court in Oklahoma City. A message left with a public defender assigned to represent Mr. Alfallaj was not immediately returned.Mr. Alfallaj, who is from Riyadh, came to the United States in late 2011 on a nonimmigrant visa based on his wife’s status as a foreign student. He had been living in Weatherford, Okla., about 70 miles west of Oklahoma City, the authorities said. Prosecutors say that he falsely answered questions on his visa application, including about whether he had supported terrorists. The F.B.I. said he lied about whether he had contacts with anyone from a terrorist group when agents interviewed him in December. The next month, Mr. Alfallaj confirmed that the telephone number found on the application belonged to his father, the F.B.I. said.The F.B.I. had been watching him for several months and had been trying determine whether Mr. Alfallaj was involved in terrorist activity in the United States.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Alfallaj and his family did not interact with neighbors and stayed mostly to themselves. Mr. Alfallaj’s apartment complex was not far from Southwestern Oklahoma State University. A student there said that many Saudis attended the school and that they often mingled and had cookouts, but that Mr. Alfallaj did not attend these gatherings.The case highlights the difficulty facing the government in processing the large amounts of fingerprints, photographs, messages, email addresses, phone numbers and DNA samples that have been collected in nearly two decades of war.Many documents and electronic media collected in Afghanistan land on the shelves of a unit in the F.B.I.’s counterterrorism division. The materials, which are stored in federal facilities in Northern Virginia and at F.B.I. Headquarters in Washington, have been a vexing problem for the agency. American officials have long wanted to exploit the materials but lacked the resources as the F.B.I. has focused on other pressing terrorism investigations over the years.The number of documents was staggering, perhaps in the hundreds of thousands, said a former F.B.I. official who worked in the unit. Much of the information is in other languages, such as Arabic. To inspect the materials, the F.B.I. would need to reassign linguists from other cases.The case of Mr. Alfallaj is similar to one brought in 2011 against two Iraqi men who were arrested in Bowling Green, Ky., after they had entered the United States. The F.B.I. discovered the men after finding fingerprints on explosive devices that had been used to attack American soldiers in Iraq. The two men were later convicted of terrorism charges and sentenced to life in prison.In March 2017, the F.B.I. decided to go through the terrorist camp applications to determine whether any fingerprints could be identified as part of a renewed effort to identify possible terrorism suspects, federal court documents show. Seven months later, the F.B.I. matched the fingerprints taken from Mr. Alfallaj when he applied to become a pilot.Mr. Alfallaj should never had been able to enter the country, said James W. McJunkin, the former head of counterterrorism at the F.B.I.“I’d say there was a number of breakdowns going back to where the original intelligence was maintained and stored,” Mr. McJunkin said. “He should have been on a watch list.”Go to Home Page »Supported byLONDON — To track down people in Britain who may have broken immigration rules, the government is turning to a new and controversial source of information: doctors.Doctors who work with refugees and asylum-seekers have described the move as a major breach of medical ethics, saying it isn't up to physicians to enforce immigration rules.In letters recently made public, politicians sparred with immigration officials over a data-sharing agreement quietly signed in 2016 that gives the government access to personal information collected by the country's family doctors. Medical details are excluded.A parliamentary health committee condemned the situation as "unacceptable," calling for the agreement to be suspended.But Britain's immigration department has dismissed those concerns, arguing that such data sharing allows the U.K. to remove people "who might pose a danger to the public."Medical workers back the health committee's viewpoint."We understand the government has a job to do, but going into health records to get patient information is not OK," said Lucy Jones, director of programs at Doctors of the World U.K. "The idea that any patient information is being shared with a government body immediately breaks their trust in a doctor-patient relationship."Several leading medical organizations, including the Royal College of General Practitioners, Public Health England and the General Medical Council, have all slammed the data-sharing deal, saying it could worsen the health of vulnerable people and drive disease outbreaks underground, hurting health care for all.Dalia Omer, a refugee from Sudan who was granted asylum in the U.K. in February after nearly two years, sought medical help several times while awaiting the government's decision. She said had she known about the data sharing arrangement, she would not have been as forthcoming."If I knew the doctors could share information with the Home Office, I would not tell them everything," she said, referring to the British department that oversees immigration and security. She said she might even lie about certain details to protect herself.Dr. Kitty Worthing, a London-based doctor with the group Docs Not Cops, said "the cornerstone of the doctor-patient relationship is confidentiality and this data-sharing is a direct breach of that." She said when she's advised people that their personal information could be shared with immigration officials "their reaction is always fear."Elsewhere in Europe, many countries have a strict firewall that stops information gathered by health services from being disclosed to other government agencies. Germany's data protection office said regulations prohibit any blanket sharing of such information. In France, no data obtained by doctors is shared with the Interior Ministry.Some health experts said it was critical that some types of health care are available to everyone in the U.K., regardless of their immigration status."With HIV treatment, it makes much more sense to treat everybody with HIV, because treatment lowers the level of virus in your blood so you can't pass it on," said Kat Smithson of the National AIDS Trust. "If people are not diagnosed because they're not accessing health care, they're not aware they're living with HIV, which means they're far more likely to pass it on to somebody else."The British government, however, says protecting its borders outweighs those concerns."We believe that the release of (patient) information is lawful and proportionate action in pursuit of the effective enforcement of the U.K.'s immigration policy," wrote Caroline Noakes, the minister of state for immigration, and James O'Shaughnessy, parliamentary undersecretary of state for health, responding to lawmaker's concerns.They cited the case of a Pakistani citizen who overstayed a visitor's visa. After the Pakistani was refused residency in 2013, contact with the Home Office was broken off. Immigration officials sent a request to health services, which revealed a new address."The Home Office visited the address and arrested the individual, a convicted sex offender, who is now complying with the Home Office and will leave the U.K.," Noakes and O'Shaughnessy wrote, describing patients' non-medical data as being "at the lower end of the privacy spectrum."From last November to January, health officials agreed to nearly 1,300 requests for information. Of those, health officials found 501 cases where patients had a different address from the one in Home Office records.Some Londoners said it was OK for immigration officials to get data from doctors under certain conditions."If the Home Office needs the information for a good reason, I guess it's OK, but they should ask the people for permission," said Farooq, outside an east London clinic that provides health care largely for migrants. He declined to give his last name because he was worried about the immigration status of his father, originally from Afghanistan.Farooq said data sharing could make migrants nervous about getting medical attention."It could put people in a risky situation if they're worried about their visa and they need to see a doctor," he said.___Elaine Ganley in Paris and David Rising in Berlin contributed to this report.___This story changes wording in second paragraph from "last month" to reflect the letters were made public in February.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSMOSCOW —  The crisis between Russia and the West over the poisoning of a former double agent in Britain heightened Friday as Russia ordered new cuts to the number of British envoys in the country.Russia also summoned 23 foreign ambassadors to inform them that some of their diplomats would be expelled, a day after ordering 60 U.S. diplomats to leave and demanding that Washington's consulate in St. Petersburg close on short notice.The massive expulsion of diplomats on both sides has reached a scale unseen even at the height of the Cold War.Two dozen countries, along with NATO, ordered out more than 150 Russian diplomats this week in a show of solidarity with Britain over the nerve-agent poisoning of Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Britain that London blamed on Russia.Moscow has vehemently denied involvement in the March 4 nerve agent attack in the English city of Salisbury and announced the expulsion of the same number of diplomats from each nation.The ministry escalated its response Friday, saying it has ordered Britain to reduce the number of its diplomats in Moscow to the level that Russia has in London. The exact number wasn't immediately clear, but state news agency RIA Novosti agency quoted an unidentified Russian diplomat as saying the number of British diplomatic personnel in Russia exceeds the number of Russian envoys in Britain by more than 50 people.The ministry said it summoned the British ambassador to hand him a protest over the "provocative and unsubstantiated actions by Britain, which instigated the expulsion of Russian diplomats from various nations for no reason." It gave London one month to reduce its diplomatic personnel in Russia.Adding to the tensions, the ministry late Friday said a plane belonging to Russian state airline Aeroflot was being searched by police in London. Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said there was no explanation given for the search, which she called "the latest provocation." The plane left London's Heathrow Airport for Moscow about three hours behind schedule.Commenting on the Russian move to expel more U.K. diplomats, a spokeswoman for the British Foreign Office said "it's regrettable but in light of Russia's previous behavior, we anticipated a response.""However, this doesn't change the facts of the matter: the attempted assassination of two people on British soil, for which there is no alternative conclusion other than that the Russian state was culpable," she said. "Russia is in flagrant breach of international law and the Chemical Weapons Convention and actions by countries around the world have demonstrated the depth of international concern."The expulsions affect not only the diplomats but their families as well, forcing them to take their children out of school in the middle of the year.A hospital treating the Skripals said Thursday that the 33-year-old daughter Yulia was improving rapidly and was now in stable condition but her 66-year-old father remained in critical condition.Speaking to reporters Friday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov insisted that "Russia didn't start any diplomatic wars," and "remains open for developing good ties."He added that Russia has called a meeting of the international chemical weapons watchdog next week to press for an "unbiased and objective investigation."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Russia has accused Britain of failing to back up its accusations with evidence and refusing to share materials from the probe. The Foreign Ministry said it told the British ambassador on Friday that Moscow is ready to cooperate in the investigation.Earlier this week, the Russian Foreign Ministry alleged that British special services could have been involved in the poisoning and claimed that Britain, the U.S., the Czech Republic and Sweden all have researched the class of nerve agent that London said was used to poison Skripal.Britain and its allies have rejected the Russian nerve agent claims.The countries informed Friday by Russia of diplomat expulsions were Australia, Albania, Germany, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Canada, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Ukraine, Finland, France, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Sweden and Estonia.The Foreign Ministry added that it would also consider mirror expulsions of diplomats from Belgium, Hungary, Georgia and Montenegro.Bulgaria announced it would not expel any Russian diplomats. The country is heavily dependent on Russian gas supplies and tourists.In response to the U.S. move earlier this week to close the Russian Consulate in Seattle, Moscow also shut the U.S. Consulate in St. Petersburg, giving it until Saturday to vacate the premises.An Associated Press reporter on Friday saw U.S. consulate staff carrying boxes from the building in St. Petersburg and loading them into a van. Several mini-vans drove out of the consulate while security also detained a man who threw a Starbucks cup at the building.Some passers-by near the U.S. Consulate cheered the expulsions."Let them get out of here," said 61-year-old retiree Viktor Fedin. "You won't put Russia on its knees."Others were more cautious, worried that the closures would affect visa processing for Russians."The Russian government has to respond to the hostile actions against Russia," said 32-year-old researcher Yelena Bogomazova.  "But the escalation is bad. The closure of the consulate will make it difficult for people to get U.S. visas. They will have to go to Moscow."After Russia expelled several dozen U.S. diplomats, the waiting list for U.S. visa applications in Russia has increased to weeks, if not months. The U.S. Embassy said it was unable to process visa applications faster because of the staff shortage.Russia also warned that the expulsions of its diplomats could slow down issuing visas.In a statement that reflects the soaring tensions, Moscow also accused Washington of trying to recruit the Russian diplomats it has expelled as spies.The Russian Foreign Ministry said the U.S. special services have engaged in "frantic efforts" to make cooperation offers to the expelled Russian diplomats. The ministry described the alleged U.S. overtures as "cynical and disgusting," adding that they have failed.___Gregory Katz reported from London. Irina Titova in St. Petersburg, Jim Heintz and Nataliya Vasilyeva in Moscow contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »On Thursday, the Senate voted to advance three different plans, but each failed.Proposal by:House RepublicansNo vote scheduledWhite House39-603 Democrats Yes, 14 Republicans NoSenator FlakeNo vote scheduledGang of SixNo vote scheduledMcCain-Coons52-474 Republicans Yes, 1 Democrat NoCommon Sense Coalition54-458 Republicans Yes, 3 Democrats NoProposal by:House RepublicansNo vote scheduledWhite House39-603 Ds Yes, 14 Rs NoSenator FlakeNo vote scheduledGang of SixNo vote scheduledMcCain-Coons52-474 Rs Yes, 1 D NoCommon Sense Coalition54-458 Rs Yes, 3 Ds NoHere is how different proposals address the Dreamers’ protections and five other critical issues:MORE GENEROUSMORE RESTRICTIVEMORE GENEROUSMORE RESTRICTIVEAbout 700,000 undocumented immigrants are currently shielded from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. An additional 1.1 million Dreamers were eligible for the program, but they did not apply. Mr. Trump announced plans to phase out the program by March 5.Path tocitizenship andparent benefitPath tocitizenshipNocitizenshipProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Path tocitizenship andparent benefitPath tocitizenshipNocitizenshipProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.In 2001, the Dream Act was introduced to provide a pathway to citizenship for these immigrants without additional immigration measures. Democrats still favor that approach, but it does not have enough support in the Republican-controlled Congress.NO MONEYMORE MONEYNo fundingfor a border wallNO MONEYMORE MONEYNo fundingfor a border wallSmall amountof moneyMoremoneyNomoneyProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Small amountof moneyMoremoneyNomoneyProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.LESS AGGRESSIVEMORE AGGRESSIVELimited fundingfor border securityLESS AGGRESSIVEMORE AGGRESSIVELimited fundingfor border securityLimitedfundingMorefundingMostaggressiveProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.LimitedfundingMorefundingMostaggressiveProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.STATUS QUOMORE ENFORCEMENTNo increasedenforcement of immigration lawsSTATUS QUOMORE ENFORCEMENTNo increasedenforcement of immigration lawsA separate vote to advance an amendment that would withhold federal grants from sanctuary cities failed in the Senate on Thursday. Four Democrats joined the Republicans in supporting it, but they did not reach the 60 votes needed to proceed.StatusquoHeavierenforcementMost aggressiveenforcementProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.MostaggressiveenforcementStatusquoHeavierenforcementProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.None of the other major plans include increased interior enforcement measures.STATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current visa systemSTATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current visa systemAnother one of the administration’s four priorities is ending “chain migration” — migration that allows legal immigrants to sponsor extended family members.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.STATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current diversity lottery visa systemSTATUS QUOFEWER VISASNo changeto current diversity lottery visa systemStatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.StatusquoRedistributevisasFewervisasProposal by:House RepublicansWhite HouseSenator FlakeGang of SixMcCain-CoonsCommon Sense CoalitionThe Senate voted down the proposals in yellow.Additional source: Migration Policy InstituteSEATTLE —  The Trump administration's decision to shutter the Russian consulate in Seattle displeased many Russian immigrants Monday, some of whom rushed to its offices in hopes of securing passports, visas and other important documents.One woman, who identified herself as a dual U.S.-Russian citizen from Boise, Idaho, said she spent $1,000 traveling to Seattle to renew a passport so that she could visit her brother in Russia — only to be turned away. Another, Luda Rieve, of San Diego, told The Seattle Times she too was turned away after taking the day off work and flying from California to renew her passport.Many procedures handled by the consulate require in-person appearances, and because the administration also ordered the San Francisco consulate closed last September, the only facilities remaining are in New York, Houston and Washington, D.C."My sister is at the consulate right now trying to get a travel passport," David Mordekhov said, a Seattle lawyer and Moscow native who moved to the U.S. 20 years ago. "Any travel paperwork that has to do with trips to Russia, visa applications, powers of attorney and any other documents are going to be much harder to procure."The closure of the Seattle consulate, effective April 2, came as the United States and more than a dozen European nations kicked out Russian diplomats as punishment for Moscow's alleged poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain. The Seattle consulate was responsible for handling requests from people in Alaska, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming.The administration cited the consulate's proximity to a submarine base, Naval Base Kitsap, as well as Boeing's operations, but University of Washington international relations professor Don Hellmann suggested that rationale "might be a little simplistic.""The real thrust of intelligence these days is digital," he said. "It's intellectual property. We live in a hacked world. Microsoft is probably as much a target as the naval base or Boeing."The Seattle area is home to about 33,000 Russians, a number of whom work in the engineering or tech industries. Among them is Sergey Bobkov, an analyst for the travel website Expedia, who said Russians and Russian-Americans would to have to travel farther and go through more hoops to visit friends and family there.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It's been frustrating to no end, to say the least," Bobkov said, a 34-year-old native of St. Petersburg, Russia, who holds dual citizenship. "I'm trying to get a visa for my wife to go to Russia with me in August. We will have to either fly to New York City or Washington, D.C. and handle those things in person, or we'll have to pay someone under the table to do express services."He added, "It's hard on all of us who have nothing to do with politics."Not everyone who showed up Monday came away empty-handed. Alex Bendetov said he was able to obtain a passport for his baby after starting the process some time ago."My wife acted quickly. She said, 'We gotta go and try to pick up the passport,'" he said. "We have grandparents living back home and it's important to go back and visit with them."Last summer, the Trump administration ordered the San Francisco consulate closed in a diplomatic tit-for-tat, after Congress passed sanctions against Russia for election interference and the Kremlin retaliated by ordering the U.S. to cut its diplomatic staff there. A day later, black smoke poured from a chimney as consular officials burned undisclosed items in a fireplace, prompting a response from firefighters.There were no immediate reports of smoke Monday at the consulate's offices on the 25th floor of a downtown Seattle skyscraper or at the consular residence, a stately red-brick building surrounded by a wrought-iron fence, cedar trees and rhododendrons.___AP reporters Manuel Valdes and Phuong Le contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »SAN ANTONIO —  The Latest on the Final Four of the NCAA Tournament (all times local):5:15 p.m.NCAA leaders expect to receive recommendations for reforming college basketball in late April and have pledged to quickly implement changes while preserving amateurism as currently defined.NCAA President Mark Emmert said during his annual state of the association news conference ahead of the Final Four that the commission on college basketball, led by former Sec. of State Condoleezza Rice, will present its report to the Division I Board of Directors and the NCAA's Board of Governors on April 25.As usual, Emmert drew a line at any suggestion about paying college athletes. He and University of Minnesota President Eric Kaler, the chairman of the Division I board, also pushed back against the idea of allowing athletes to be compensated by outside sources, such as endorsement deals.Kaler called such a model "a slippery slope."___5 p.m.Villanova junior Jalen Brunson joined a prestigious list of players who have been named The Associated Press men's college basketball player of the year.Brunson was presented with the trophy Thursday, two days before his Wildcats face Kansas in the national semifinals.The list of past AP national players of the year include some of the sport's all-time greats, including Wake Forest's Tim Duncan, LSU's Shaquille O'Neal, North Carolina's Michael Jordan, Virginia's Ralph Sampson, Indiana State's Larry Bird, UCLA's Bill Walton, LSU's "Pistol" Pete Maravich and UCLA's Lew Alcindor.Brunson called being a part of that list "really humbling and it's something I can't even really put into words."But while he noted he'll cherish that honor forever, he says that is "the last thing on my mind" with Villanova set to play Saturday.___4:45 p.m.Michigan big man Moritz Wagner knows his sneakers are on their last legs, especially since his teammates are constantly heckling him about how ugly they are.Needing more room for an ankle brace, Wagner is forced to wear solid black Air Jordan 11 Retros rather than the newest blue and maize Nike sneakers that his teammates have. Wagner has two pairs of the black sneakers, but he's ready to dump both sets.Wagner says he's taking heat for the retros. "But as you can see, I have this nasty brace that doesn't fit into normal Jordans that we get. So, I wear old Jordans with the tongue so there's more room in them," he said.Wagner will gladly continue to wear the ragged sneakers for two more games, though, as the Wolverines seek their second men's basketball national championship. Well, Wagner is hoping the sneakers can make it through two more games."They're nasty," Wagner said. "I will be so happy when the season is over. I can throw them away or keep one as a memory, but they won't make it longer than that. They are ready to fall apart."___4:30 p.m.Udoka Azubuike's mom will get to see him play for the first time since he left Nigeria six years ago.U.S. Rep. Kevin Yoder of Kansas said Thursday that Azubuike's mother, Florence, had her visa approved, clearing the way for her to watch her son play for Kansas against Villanova.Azubuike, a sophomore center for the Jayhawks, left home in the ninth grade to play basketball in the United States. He has not seen his mother in person since then."It's going to be an emotional moment for me," Azubuike said.The NCAA provides a $3,000 stipend for families to travel to Final Four games and Kansas officials have been working to get Florence a passport and travel visa so she could watch her son play at The Alamodome on Saturday.The Nigerian government approved her visa on Thursday, paving the way for a long-awaited reunion."We want to win the game, but is winning the game more important than to make sure there's not a little distraction for Doke? Of course not," Kansas coach Bill Self said. "It will be worth it. Can you imagine, you've never seen your son play basketball and the first time you do it is in front of 70,000 people at this thing? I can't even imagine what's going to be going through her mind."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___2:15 p.m.Virginia coach Tony Bennett and his players have moved past the shock of their improbable loss to UMBC. Now it's about building off lessons learned.Bennett was named The Associated Press men's college basketball coach of the year on Thursday. He attended a news conference in the Alamodome and was presented with the trophy, then fielded questions about a 31-win season that included a dominating run through the Atlantic Coast Conference but ended with the first 16-vs-1 upset in NCAA Tournament history.Bennett says he still appreciates the full year of success that the Cavaliers had before the UMBC loss. He also says noted that guard Ty Jerome recently sent a text message with a simple message: "Coach, this is now part of our story. And we get to respond to it the way we want."___11:40 a.m.The Loyola-Chicago Ramblers know they will not keep advancing simply because they're a nice story.Center Cameron Krutwig says the team is wary of falling into what he calls "The Cinderella Trap.""I don't think we're going to fall into the Cinderella Trap, where we just walk out there and something magical is going to happen, and we're going to win," he says. "We're going to have to go out and play well and execute."Loyola-Chicago is the fourth 11 seed in the history of the tournament to advance to the Final Four. The previous three — LSU (1986), George Mason (2006) and VCU (2011) have all lost in the national semifinal.The Ramblers play third-seeded Michigan on Saturday night.___11:20 a.m.CBS Sports is bringing in some famous faces tied to each of the Final Four schools for its team-specific telecasts of the games.NFL kicker Jay Feely and CNN medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta will do analysis and reporting for their alma mater, Michigan.The broadcast teams announced Thursday go with broadcasts of the Final Four that are geared toward fans and alumni interested in each team. They'll be broadcast on TNT and TruTV while the main games will air on TBS.Loyola-Chicago has Jerry Harkness, the captain of the school's 1963 title team.Kansas is bringing in alum Rob Riggle, the actor and comedian known for playing a Las Vegas cop in "The Hangover." Also serving as an analyst is Scott Pollard, who played for the Jayhawks and won an NBA title with the Boston Celtics in 2018.Randy Foye will do analysis for the Villanova telecast, 12 years after being selected as an AP All-American. He played in the NBA for 12 years.___11 a.m.The Ramblers of Loyola-Chicago might not feel like such underdogs at the Final Four while they're rolling around in their custom-painted bus. The 11th-seeded upstarts got a red-carpet arrival in Texas alongside powerhouses Kansas, Villanova and Michigan.The teams still contending for the NCAA championship are practicing at the Alamodome on Thursday, while players and coaches from each team hold court with reporters.NCAA President Mark Emmert will also hold his state of the association news conference. He has promised that changes are coming to a sport that has been enveloped in a corruption scandal all season.The Associated Press also plans to announce the winners of player and coach of the year for both men's and women's hoops.___More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-eventsGo to Home Page »Sioux protest camp at Cannon Ball, N.D. September 2016.1 of 19Posts on Twitter, Facebook and other social media can reveal a wealth of information that can be used to identify potential terrorists, but experts say the department faces an array of technical, logistical and language barriers in trying to analyze the millions of records generated every day.Travel industry officials and immigration rights advocates say the new policy carries the peril of making someone who posts legitimate criticism of American foreign policy or who has friends or followers who express sympathy toward terrorists subject to unwarranted scrutiny.Their concerns underline the mounting challenge for law enforcement agencies that are trying to keep pace with the speed and scope of technology as terrorists turn to social media as an essential tool.“We haven’t seen the policy, but it is a concern considering the already lengthy and opaque process that refugees have to go through,” said Melanie Nezer of HIAS, a group that helps resettle refugees in the United States. “It could keep out people who are not a threat.” Several trade organizations in the travel industry said they had similar concerns.Since the shooting, counterterrorism officials and lawmakers have grown increasingly worried about the use of social media by terrorist groups like the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.In Congress, several bills, including one by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, have been introduced that would require the Department of Homeland Security to screen the social media use of refugees and those visiting or migrating to the United States.Mr. McCain’s bill, along with a similar measure introduced by Representative Vern Buchanan, Republican of Florida, would require the department to examine all public records, including “Internet sites and social media profiles,” to determine whether an applicant would be a security risk.“This legislation adds an important and necessary layer of screening that will go a long way in properly vetting the online activities of those wishing to enter the United States,” said Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.“A simple check of social media accounts of foreign travelers and visa applicants,” he added, “will help ensure that those who have participated in, pledged allegiance to or communicated with terrorist organizations cannot enter the United States.”Congress has yet to act on the legislation, but Democrats have also called for more screening of social media accounts. In December, 22 Democratic lawmakers sent a letter to the secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, urging him to have the agency immediately begin reviewing applicants’ social media accounts.The department said that it had developed a list of nearly three dozen situations where social media can be examined to screen applicants, but that it did not consistently examine accounts for signs of support or participation in terrorist organizations.Last year, the department established a task force to study the issue and to make recommendations to Mr. Johnson on ways to incorporate the screening of social media accounts into the vetting process. A new social media policy is expected soon; agency officials did not give a timetable.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The agency does not have the ability to reach private communications sent via direct messaging.“All we have is the ability to access the public-facing statements that individuals make,” León Rodríguez, the agency’s director, said at the congressional hearing, on Feb. 3. “We do not have a way to reach private communications.”Mr. Rodríguez said that while some social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter were scanned with software, most screening was done manually by analysts at the agency.“It’s slow going and, short term, is just for Syrians,” he said.In the future, the Department of Homeland Security hopes to find a way to fully automate the process of going through a huge amount of messages and other data, he said. It said it would bring in experts from the technology industry at the end of the month to talk about the tools available to search social media.The agency said it would also have to hire and train additional people, including more linguists, to screen the accounts.But experts say that analyzing the social media accounts of tens of millions of people who entered the country each year to work, visit and live would be exceedingly difficult.Users might have multiple accounts on different platforms, the accounts can be in different languages, and many people use aliases.John Elder, a data-mining expert based in Charlottesville, Va., who has worked with the Internal Revenue Service and the Postal Service on fraud detection, said it was possible to build models to scan thousands of social media postings for information that could help identify potential terrorists.“But hopefully, people won’t have the expectation that it will be an infallible oracle,” he said. “It will help you pinpoint things you need to check further, but it’s not error free.”David Heyman, a former assistant secretary of Homeland Security for policy, agrees. “You have to be careful how you design the proposal to screen people,” he said. “Artificial intelligence and algorithms have a poor ability to discern sarcasm or parody.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The Obama administration on Thursday announced changes to a visa-waiver program that would make it harder for travelers to enter the United States from Europe if they had dual citizenship from Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria, or had visited one of those countries in the last five years.The administration’s plan would provide limited exemptions for individuals who have to travel to any of the four countries as diplomats or for military service. Additional exemptions could be applied for humanitarian reasons or for journalists.About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less. About 20 million tourists use the program each year.Many members of Congress also worried that some of the travelers who could pose a security threat might overstay their visits. Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Satam al-Suqami and Nawaf Alhazmi, overstayed their visas.Tourists traveling to the United States under the visa-waiver program are routinely screened against intelligence databases to check for links to terrorism or for other security risks, but these checks are less restrictive than those made on travelers who must obtain a visa.In December, Congress passed visa-waiver legislation that requires countries to share more information about travelers and authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to terminate any country’s participation in the program if it does not share the security data. The legislation would also strengthen efforts to detect and prevent passport fraud.House Republicans said the announcement by the administration went against the will of Congress by including waivers for certain government, humanitarian or journalistic purposes — or, in the case of Iran or Iraq, for business purposes.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“All waivers announced by the White House were explicitly rejected by Congress during our negotiations with the administration,” wrote Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Candice Miller, Republican of Michigan, who sponsored legislation that led to the changes in the visa-waiver program.C. Stewart Verdery Jr., an official at the Department of Homeland Security during the administration of George W. Bush, said the legislation and the changes announced Thursday were good approaches to making countries that participated in the visa-waiver program live up to their commitments.“Not all countries were in compliance with the requirements that they have the proper documents, share information or identify risky passengers,” he said.Mr. Verdery said the requirements that foreign travelers with dual citizenship go through additional steps to come to the United States would be an inconvenience, but a minor one.“They would just have to go through the additional steps of getting and paying for a visa,” he said. “This will only affect a small percentage of people. Besides, the visa-waiver program is a privilege, not a right.”The tourism industry said the changes to the visa-waiver program announced by the administration struck the right balance between security and legitimate travel.But Jonathan Grella, executive vice president for public affairs at the U.S. Travel Association, an industry trade group, said travel groups would keep an eye on how the changes were put into effect because European countries could decide to add security.Global aid groups voiced their concern about the changes to the visa-waiver program, saying it would affect their ability to brief White House officials, Congress or United Nations agencies on humanitarian crises because the changes would make it harder for workers born in countries such as Syria or Iraq to come to the United States.Go to Home Page »PHNOM PENH, Cambodia —  Forty-three Cambodians arrived in Phnom Penh, Cambodia's capital, on Thursday after being deported from the United States under a law allowing the repatriation of immigrants who have committed felony crimes and have not become U.S. citizens.The group is the largest to be sent to Cambodia under a 2002 bilateral agreement. More than 500 other Cambodians have already been repatriated.The program is controversial because it breaks up families, and in some cases the returnees have never lived in Cambodia, having been the children of refugees who fled to camps in Thailand to escape the genocidal Khmer Rouge regime that ruled Cambodia in 1975-79.Critics of the deportation policy say many of those convicted fell into crime as a result of social dislocation. The returnees are seen as having difficulty reintegrating into Cambodian society because many have spent most of their lives in the United States.Two Cambodians ex-convicts on March 30 received pardons from California Gov. Jerry Brown, at least temporarily removing the risk they might be deported.Gen. Dim Ra, a senior immigration police officer overseeing the returnees, said the group that arrived Thursday included three women.He said any returnees who still have family members in Cambodia will live with their relatives, and those who do not will receive vocational training by a private group funded by the U.S. government before being integrated into Cambodian society.The deportation policy has hurt already cool relations between Cambodia and the United States.Prime Minister Hun Sen said in April last year that he wanted to amend the 2002 pact with Washington that allowed the implementation of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, meant to combat illegal immigration and terrorism.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Hun Sen, who has led Cambodia for more than three decades, said the agreement should be reviewed on "humanitarian" grounds because it splits up families settled in the United States. Calls to review the act were first raised in 2016 by Cambodian officials, who asked that it be renegotiated or suspended to ease the reintegration problem.Cambodia then slowed or stopped accepting the return of Cambodian deportees.In response, the U.S. Embassy in Cambodia stopped issuing visas in September last year to senior Cambodian foreign ministry officials and their families, an action initiated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It said the suspension was implemented under U.S. immigration law in response to Cambodia's refusal to accept back its nationals whom the U.S. wants to repatriate. Similar actions were taken for the same reason against Eritrea, Sierra Leone and Guinea.Cambodia in retaliation suspended missions by U.S. military-led teams searching for the remains of Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War. The U.S. government lists 48 Americans still unaccounted for in Cambodia.In February this year, a U.S. State Department official said the visa sanctions on top Cambodian foreign affairs officials could be lifted "in the near future" if the Cambodian government follows through on promises to begin accepting deportees again.U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Carl Risch said during a visit to Cambodia that Cambodian officials had been "very supportive in trying to improve the process."___This story has been corrected to show that the year of the repatriation agreement was 2002 instead of 2001.Go to Home Page »Supported byWhat does Trump’s crackdown look like in real life? In Lawrence, Kan., the other day, immigration agents handcuffed a beloved chemistry professor as he was leaving his home to drive his daughter to school. Then they warned his crying wife and children, ages 7 to 14, that they could be arrested if they tried to hug him goodbye, and drove off with him — leaving a shattered family behind.“I’m a normal 12-year-old with a dad like everybody else’s dad,” the daughter he was about to drive that morning, Naheen Jamal, told me. “I don’t understand why this is happening.”Her dad, Syed A. Jamal, 55, had been in America for 30 years, having arrived legally from Bangladesh as a student, before overstaying his visa. He loved Kansas and settled in Lawrence, teaching at local colleges and volunteering at local schools — even running for the school board. He coached students in science and sports.But President Trump, you say that these people are “criminals, drug dealers, rapists” and that we must be protected from them.Jamal, who seems just about the least dangerous person in America, is now in jail pending deportation to Bangladesh. A court intervened with a temporary stay as the government was trying to rush him out of the country.While this arrest has done nothing to make anyone safer, it is devastating for three American citizens in particular — his children. Their mom, Angela, also of Bangladeshi origin, donated a kidney last year, and Jamal is the only source of family income.Researchers have found that such children often bounce around among relatives, suffer in school and display self-destructive behaviors, such as cutting themselves.“It’s insane,” said Marci Leuschen, a high school biology teacher and friend of the Jamal family who has helped organize a campaign in Lawrence to support the family. Some 500 people showed up at a local church to write letters in support of Jamal, and Leuschen said some were Trump supporters who were aghast that the immigration crackdown meant locking up their friend.Thank you, President Trump, for defending us from such “bad hombres” — even if Professor Jamal hasn’t been accused of any violence, in contrast to your (recently ousted) staff secretary.Naheen said that the outpouring of community support has overwhelmed her. “It’s what keeps me going,” she told me. “Everyone in my community, I feel so grateful to them.”Jamal earned a graduate degree in pharmaceutical sciences, worked as a researcher in cancer and genetics and became renowned for helping others. He even assisted elderly neighbors with their weekly shopping and checked on their medicines.Jamal has had a tortuous series of interactions with the impossibly complex immigration system. Several years ago, immigration authorities ruled that he had overstayed his visa, but the Obama administration exercised discretion, and (like countless others) he was allowed to stay if he reported in regularly. So Jamal had a temporary work permit and checked in with the immigration authorities, most recently on Jan. 7. Everything seemed to be fine — until the immigration officers decided for some reason to blow up his family’s life.Thank you, Mr. President, for shielding us from the “worst of the worst” chemistry professors.Carl Rusnok, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, did not try to argue that Jamal is a threat. He said that the priority is to arrest criminals (as it was under Barack Obama) but that no one is excluded.I do believe it’s important to hold individuals to account for misconduct. So I tried to ask Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen why she is determined to destroy the lives of the Americans in the Jamal family. She did not respond, perhaps because she was too busy being a good citizen helping elderly neighbors with their groceries. Or maybe just deporting “savage” immigrants to protect Americans.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBut it has also quietly, and with much less resistance, slowed many forms of legal immigration without the need for Congress to rescind a single visa program enshrined in the law.Immigration and State Department officials are more closely scrutinizing, and have started more frequently denying, visas for people seeking to visit the United States on business, as well as for those recruited by American companies, according to lawyers representing visa seekers. Foreigners already in the United States whose employers wish to extend their stays are also facing new hurdles.The changes show how the Trump administration has managed to carry out the least attention-grabbing, but perhaps farthest-reaching, portion of the president’s immigration plans: cutting the number of people entering the United States each year as temporary workers or permanent residents.The administration has put into practice the philosophy President Trump laid out in a pair of executive orders billed as protecting the nation from terrorism and its workers from foreign competition.But now even applicants lucky enough to be chosen are drawing more scrutiny.Officials are asking for extra details about applicants’ education and work history, the position to be filled and the employer, requiring the company to amass many additional documents, which can postpone a decision by several months.For H-1Bs, the number of such “requests for evidence” from January to August this year jumped 44 percent compared with the same period last year, according to the most recent data from United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.So far, the government is still greenlighting most H-1B applications that survive the lottery, but the approval rate is inching down.For the first two months of this fiscal year, October and November, 86 percent and 82 percent of H-1B applications were approved. That compares with 93 percent and 92 percent for the same months last year. The data does not reflect companies that give up after receiving requests for more evidence.Once a company has spent thousands of dollars in legal fees to petition for a worker, “there is huge discouragement after an R.F.E. is issued,” said Roxanne Levine, an immigration lawyer in New York, “because of the massive extra time, effort and money required to respond.”L. Francis Cissna, the immigration agency’s new director, said in an interview that if there are more requests for evidence, “that is perfectly rational and perfectly appropriate.”“We are looking at the entire program to ensure the entire thing is administered well and in conformity with congressional intent,” he said.Immigration lawyers and companies seeking the visas say that some of the decisions appear arbitrary.After responding to requests for evidence, a consulting firm that applied for an H-1B for an energy expert from Britain received a denial stating that the skills for the position “do not appear to be of such complexity, uniqueness or specialization as to require the attainment of a bachelor’s degree,” a prerequisite for the visa.Kristen Albertson, the operations manager at the firm, called the outcome “egregious.”“We apply only when it’s a strong case and essential to our business,” she said of the applicant, who is a graduate of the University of Chicago.An H-1B visa for an Indian scientist recruited by the Cleveland Clinic for his expertise in cellular biology is stuck in “administrative processing” in New Delhi, meaning it is undergoing further review that could stretch into months. “His team’s projects are now on hold due to the delay,” said Janice Bianco, an official at the Cleveland Clinic who handles applications for foreigners.She said a visa for a pediatric geneticist hired in the spring took three months to be issued — in the past, it would have taken about three weeks — forcing the hospital to reroute some patients to other facilities.The State Department, which has handled the Cleveland Clinic visa requests, said in a statement that “consular officers have the discretion to request additional screening in any case.”Mr. Eremeev drew up plans, which his lawyer in New York detailed in a 347-page visa application. He was applying for an L-1A visa, awarded to executives transferring to the United States.“Sounds and looks great, but it didn’t help me obtain a visa,” Mr. Eremeev said in a phone interview.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Among other things, the immigration agency stated that the office leased by Mr. Eremeev did not appear to be suited for a “business that would require the employment of a manager or executive.” His lawyer provided details and pictures of the space.Ultimately, the government denied the petition, stating that the “organizational structure” presented did not support the “managerial or executive position” that Mr. Eremeev was to fill.“You are going in circles,” said the lawyer, Oksana Bandrivska, “and it’s getting harder to win cases.”Russell Harrison, director of government relations for IEEE-USA, a society of technology professionals, applauded the administration’s efforts to tackle visa abuse. However, he said, a blanket approach could stifle American competitiveness.“They seem to be against anyone coming in, which is a simplistic view,” Mr. Harrison said. “There are some incredibly talented people not born in this country, and they are being treated just like other workers who are cheap.”The government’s argument, Mr. Joseph said, is that those companies are trying to import temporary workers to fill permanent jobs that should go to Americans. But he said his clients faced a shortage of local labor year after year to fill jobs in construction, lodging, landscaping and amusement parks.Other changes affect foreigners already working or living in the United States on H-1Bs or other temporary permits.Those sponsored by their employers for a green card, or legal permanent residency, must pass in-person interviews, a reversal of a 20-year-old policy that is likely to exacerbate a long backlog in green card applications. A memo from the immigration agency said the change was in line with the executive order to safeguard the nation from terrorism.The administration said this month that it planned to eliminate a program established during the Obama administration that allows international entrepreneurs to stay in the United States for up to five years. The administration also said it would eliminate a two-year-old program that granted work permits for spouses of H-1B workers. And it recently announced plans to restrict the ability of foreign students to work temporarily in the United States after they graduate.Another change affects green card holders who enlist in the military. Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, military service has provided a faster path to citizenship than applying as a civilian, typically taking just 10 weeks.In October, the Pentagon enacted new procedures that substantially slow the process by adding several layers of vetting. The change affects thousands of immigrants who have already enlisted because they cannot start training before clearing the background checks.The Pentagon said the new measures were needed to ensure that terrorists do not infiltrate the military. But Margaret Stock, an immigration lawyer and retired lieutenant colonel in the Army, said the military would suffer. “They are turning away green card holders with language, cybersecurity and other skills that the United States military needs,” she said.See More »Go to Home Page »MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico —  Impoverished Central American migrants travelling in a "caravan" through Mexico that angered U.S. President Donald Trump said they would stick together for safety even though the group will end its journey in Mexico City rather than at the U.S. border.Since peaking at around 1,500 people, the caravan has dwindled under pressure from Trump and Mexican migration authorities, which vowed to separate those migrants with a right to stay in Mexico from those who did not.By issuing permits to the migrants, authorities shielded them from imminent deportation from Mexico.By Thursday morning, migrants were boarding buses to leave the town of Matias Romero in the southern state of Oaxaca, where their journey was held up by authorities at the weekend.Salvadoran Andres Rodriguez, 51, waited with a small backpack and a gallon of water in a field sprawling with men, women and children, mulling over a document that gave him 20 days to reach any border out of the country.Despite knowing the permit protected him, and that travelling alone would be faster, he feared if he left the caravan he would be exposed to the robbery and assault that befall many migrants on the long slog to the U.S. border."It's much safer," he said. "Everyone is supporting us. One person alone is much more vulnerable. Much more dangerous."Rodriguez, a builder, said he fled his home in El Salvador in the middle of the night with only the clothes on his back, a few dollars, a nephew, and his son, a student who had received a written death threat from a gang he had refused to join or pay."To be young, in my country, is a crime," Rodriguez said. "I'm old - they'll do nothing to me. But to my son, if we go back ... they'll kill him."Plagued by gang violence and poverty, El Salvador and neighbouring Honduras have murder rates that are among the world's highest.Trump's tweets criticizing the caravan have showered it in far more publicity than its organizers, U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, ever expected. But his proposal to militarize the border has sparked a diplomatic row with Mexico.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto rebuked Trump on Thursday over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, urging Trump not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico. [L2N1RI1PN]Stranded in Matias Romero since Sunday, a handful of women and children boarded a bus before dawn on Thursday, headed for the central city of Puebla, where the caravan was due to make another stop before concluding its journey in Mexico City.By mid-morning, others packed bags in a field strewn with discarded clothes and trash as two more buses waited, but only for those who could afford a ticket.The caravan, which set off from Mexico's southern border on March 25, aims to raise awareness about the plight of migrants, and has been running annually since 2010, the government said.Once in Puebla, organizers plan to hold a three-day conference with U.S. and Mexican immigration attorneys.On a street just outside the park, 30-year-old Guatemalan Manuel Flores brandished a temporary Mexican visa, but said he would stay with the caravan regardless."I don't even need to be here, but I'm staying for them - for my family. Because they need this. They can't go home," he said, pointing to a group of seven new friends from Honduras and El Salvador, with whom he had cooked a great vat of seafood soup.Bonded by the travails of their odyssey, they were already discussing setting up a restaurant together in Texas.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Editing by Dave Graham,  Rosalba O'Brien, Toni Reinhold)Go to Home Page »MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico —  Impoverished Central American migrants travelling in a "caravan" through Mexico that angered U.S. President Donald Trump said they would stick together for safety even though the group will end its journey in Mexico City rather than at the U.S. border.Since peaking at around 1,500 people, the caravan has dwindled under pressure from Trump and Mexican migration authorities, which vowed to separate those migrants with a right to stay in Mexico from those who did not.By issuing permits to the migrants, authorities shielded them from imminent deportation from Mexico.By Thursday morning, migrants were boarding buses to leave the town of Matias Romero in the southern state of Oaxaca, where their journey was held up by authorities at the weekend.Salvadoran Andres Rodriguez, 51, waited with a small backpack and a gallon of water in a field sprawling with men, women and children, mulling over a document that gave him 20 days to reach any border out of the country.Despite knowing the permit protected him, and that travelling alone would be faster, he feared if he left the caravan he would be exposed to the robbery and assault that befall many migrants on the long slog to the U.S. border."It's much safer," he said. "Everyone is supporting us. One person alone is much more vulnerable. Much more dangerous."Rodriguez, a builder, said he fled his home in El Salvador in the middle of the night with only the clothes on his back, a few dollars, a nephew, and his son, a student who had received a written death threat from a gang he had refused to join or pay."To be young, in my country, is a crime," Rodriguez said. "I'm old - they'll do nothing to me. But to my son, if we go back ... they'll kill him."Plagued by gang violence and poverty, El Salvador and neighbouring Honduras have murder rates that are among the world's highest.Trump's tweets criticizing the caravan have showered it in far more publicity than its organizers, U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, ever expected. But his proposal to militarize the border has sparked a diplomatic row with Mexico.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto rebuked Trump on Thursday over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, urging Trump not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico. [L2N1RI1PN]Stranded in Matias Romero since Sunday, a handful of women and children boarded a bus before dawn on Thursday, headed for the central city of Puebla, where the caravan was due to make another stop before concluding its journey in Mexico City.By mid-morning, others packed bags in a field strewn with discarded clothes and trash as two more buses waited, but only for those who could afford a ticket.The caravan, which set off from Mexico's southern border on March 25, aims to raise awareness about the plight of migrants, and has been running annually since 2010, the government said.Once in Puebla, organizers plan to hold a three-day conference with U.S. and Mexican immigration attorneys.On a street just outside the park, 30-year-old Guatemalan Manuel Flores brandished a temporary Mexican visa, but said he would stay with the caravan regardless."I don't even need to be here, but I'm staying for them - for my family. Because they need this. They can't go home," he said, pointing to a group of seven new friends from Honduras and El Salvador, with whom he had cooked a great vat of seafood soup.Bonded by the travails of their odyssey, they were already discussing setting up a restaurant together in Texas.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Editing by Dave Graham,  Rosalba O'Brien, Toni Reinhold)Go to Home Page »JERUSALEM — The Israeli police recommended Tuesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in two parallel graft cases. The attorney general must now decide whether to indict Mr. Netanyahu, a process that could take months. Here are highlights of the conclusions presented by police investigators.Mr. Mozes would get Mr. Netanyahu’s support in promoting Yediot Aharonot, including help curbing the strength of Israel Hayom, a free newspaper that is owned by Sheldon Adelson, a supporter of Mr. Netanyahu’s, and that had become a powerful competitor to Yediot.Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES —  Kelly Macdonald looks every inch the star, in a stylish dress and perfect makeup and manicure — which she proudly notes she did herself.And yet, the Scottish-born actress says with mock distress, she's cast as the servant rather than leading lady in films including "Gosford Park" and the upcoming "Holmes and Watson."That's not always the case, witness "The Child in Time," based on Ian McEwan's acclaimed 1987 novel about a toddler's kidnapping and its aftermath. Macdonald and Benedict Cumberbatch star as the couple whose world is staggered by the loss.Potential viewers shouldn't be put off by the tragedy that propels the story, as heartbreaking as it is, Macdonald said of the drama airing 9 p.m. EDT Sunday on PBS' "Masterpiece" (check local listings for times)."This isn't about a missing child and finding that child in a procedural (crime story)," she said in an interview. "At at the end it's about love. ... It's nuanced and beautiful and uplifting."Nuanced applies as well to Macdonald's body of work, whether as a bereft parent in "Child," a woman threatened by a hired killer in "No Country for Old Men," a gangster's wife in "Boardwalk Empire" or, yes, even the naive maid she played in "Gosford Park."Acting was always her preoccupation."I used to dress up as Wonder Woman in my backyard in Glasgow in the '70s," she recalled, smiling at the memory. "From day one, I wanted to watch films all the time and I would re-enact scenes from 'Calamity Jane' and 'Singin' in the Rain,' which is weird because they're musicals and I'm not a song-and-dance person."She made a quick career start with "Trainspotting" and kept going. She marvels that the temporary visa allowing her to work in America is the O-1B issued for people "with an extraordinary ability" in the arts, movie or TV industries, according to federal rules."Oh, so you're exceptional?" a Los Angeles airport passport control agent said to Macdonald as he checked her documents earlier this year, the actress recalled.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It's just a bit of an ego boost when you come here and you're 'exceptional,'" she said, adding, "Thank you very much!"She's playing opposite another outstanding British actor in "The Child in Time," and found Cumberbatch "a dream to work with.""He's so good, and I think we're both quite generous actors," she said. "I have worked with people where you give, and you don't quite get back. ... Some people just know what they're doing and do it regardless of your intonation."She and Cumberbatch take different approaches to acting — he's intellectual, she's more instinctive — but "it's like we get each other," Macdonald said.Cumberbatch, whose company produced the film, returned the compliment earlier this year during a Q&A with TV critics. Macdonald is "astonishingly natural and open and fluid and just completely at ease with her craft," he said.The stars acknowledge that the film, in part a time-shifting meditation on childhood lost and found, may seem dauntingly painful.But the "real story isn't about the missing child. It's about a real relationship and the breakdown of that relationship and the possible coming back together," Macdonald said."There is hope," said Cumberbatch.___Online:http://www.pbs.org___Lynn Elber can be reached at lelber@ap.org and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/lynnelber.Go to Home Page »VARNA, Bulgaria —  European Union leaders said talks with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Monday offered no answers to a long list of concerns including over Turkey's intervention in Syria and the jailing of journalists at home.At a summit that host Bulgaria described as "charged with great tension", the bloc vowed to keep funds flowing for a refugee deal with Ankara, but disappointed Turkish demands for deeper trade ties or visa-free travel to Europe.Despite criticism from European governments of what many view as Erdogan's growing authoritarianism, EU leaders left the door open to Turkey's stalled bid for membership to the bloc, but said only he could act to remove the obstacles to accession."I raised all our concerns, as you know it was a long list", European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after the talks held in the Black Sea port city of Varna."If you are asking me if we achieved some solutions or compromises - my answer is: no," he added. "Our position is clear - only progress on these issues will allow us to improve EU-Turkey relations, including the accession process".Erdogan, who has alarmed the West with a massive purge since a failed coup attempt in July 2016, remains an important ally in the U.S.-led NATO alliance, the fight against Islamic militants and as a destination for many Syrians fleeing war.Turkey shares borders with Iraq and Syria as well as influence with Russia in the Black Sea region, but the EU is still its biggest foreign investor and trading partner.EU leaders cited these geostrategic interest as common ground for greater cooperation with Turkey, despite differences."While our relationship is going through difficult times, in areas where we do cooperate, we cooperate well," Tusk told reporters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.STRATEGIC PARTNERSOver a two-hour dinner of "Slav salad", turbot fished from the Black Sea and local wines, Erdogan said he pressed EU counterparts for progress in talks on letting Turks visit Europe without visas and a deeper customs union."We hope to have left the difficult times with the EU behind", Erdogan said. "Turkey and the EU are long-term strategic partners. It would be a serious mistake for the bloc to push Turkey out of its enlargement politics".Only on Erdogan's plea for EU funds under a March 2016 deal to take in migrants fleeing the country's war did the bloc's leaders convey their full support.However, on the issue of Turkey's membership negotiations, which began in 2005, then stalled for five years and have now effectively collapsed, they seemed to be talking past each other.Brussels considers the EU membership bid a separate process focussed on rule of law, press freedoms and economic reforms. EU officials say Turkey's post-coup crackdown on civil rights has taken it further from complying with EU membership.Objections to Turkey's military sweep northwest into Syria’s Afrin region and a standoff over Mediterranean gas with EU members Greece and Cyprus have added to grievances.Erdogan has also made more foes in Europe in the past year over what some view as hostile rhetoric, including comparing the Dutch and German governments to Nazis, with some calling for an end to accession talks.(Additional reporting by Robin Emmott in Brussels and Tulay Karadeniz in Varna; writing by Alissa de Carbonnel and Robin Emmott; editing by John Stonestreet and G Crosse)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Still angry about the budget deal he signed last week, President Donald Trump has floated the idea of using the Pentagon budget to pay for his long-promised border wall with Mexico, despite the fact that such spending would likely require approval from Congress.Trump raised the funding plan with House Speaker Paul Ryan at a meeting at the White House last Wednesday, according to a person familiar with the discussion who wasn't authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.And he has tweeted that building "a great Border Wall" is "all about National Defense" and has called to "Build WALL through M!" — the military.Departments, however, have limited authority to reprogram funds without congressional approval. Pentagon spokesman Chris Sherwood referred all questions on the wall to the White House, where spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders deflected them, saying she was "not going to get into the specifics of that."Trump threw Washington into a tizzy on Friday when he threatened to veto the omnibus spending bill, in part because it didn't include the $25 billion he'd tried to secure for the wall in a last-minute bargaining spree.The $1.3 trillion funding package did include $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.Trump has tried to justify signing the deal by pointing to the boost in funding it provides for the military. But he nonetheless remains frustrated, according to people familiar with his thinking who weren't authorized to discuss private conversations and who spoke on condition of anonymity.Trump first publicly floated the idea of having the Pentagon pay for the rest of construction in an obscure tweet that left many confused.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Building a great Border Wall, with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country, is all about National Defense," he wrote Sunday. "Build WALL through M!"He retweeted his message again Monday night.Some people close to the president have also suggested creating a GoFundMe campaign that Trump could use to raise money from the public to fund construction. The White House did not immediately respond to questions about the idea, and it's unclear whether it has gained any serious traction.Congress, under the Constitution, has the power to determine federal appropriations, and the administration has little authority to shift funding without congressional approval. The Senate Appropriations Committee was not aware of any authority that would allow the Defense Department to fund the wall without congressional approval, said a GOP aide.Sanders said Tuesday that Trump would work with the White House counsel to make sure any action taken was within his executive authority. And she insisted the "continuation of building the wall is ongoing and we're going to continue moving forward in that process."Building the wall was one of Trump's top campaign promises, and the idea that drew the loudest cheers from supporters at his rallies. Trump also insisted he'd make Mexico pay for the construction. But Mexico has made clear it has no intention of doing so.Trump has also proposed making Mexico pay for the wall indirectly through measures such as increasing visa fees, imposing new tariffs and targeting remittances.___Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro and Lolita C. Baldor contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Still angry about the budget deal he signed last week, President Donald Trump has floated the idea of using the military's budget to pay for his long-promised border wall with Mexico, despite the fact that such spending would likely require approval from Congress.Trump raised the funding plan with House Speaker Paul Ryan at a meeting at the White House last Wednesday, according to a person familiar with the discussion who spoke on condition of anonymity.And he's publicly tweeted that building "a great Border Wall" is "all about National Defense," and called to "Build WALL through M!", meaning the military.Departments, however, have limited authority to reprogram funds without congressional approval. Pentagon spokesman Chris Sherwood referred all questions on the wall to the White House, where spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders deflected them, saying she was "not going to get into the specifics of that."Trump threw Washington into a tizzy on Friday when he threatened to veto the omnibus spending bill, in part because it didn't include the $25 billion he'd tried to secure for the wall in a last-minute bargaining spree.The $1.3 trillion funding package did include $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.Trump has tried to justify signing the deal by pointing to the boost in funding it provides for the military. But he nonetheless remains frustrated, according to people familiar with his thinking, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Trump first publicly floated the idea of having the Pentagon pay for the rest of construction in an obscure tweet that left many confused.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Building a great Border Wall, with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country, is all about National Defense," he wrote Sunday. "Build WALL through M!"He retweeted his message again Monday night.Some people close to the president have also suggested creating a GoFundMe campaign that Trump could use to raise money from the public to fund construction. The White House did not immediately respond to questions about the idea, and it's unclear whether it has gained any serious traction.Congress, under the Constitution, has the power to determine federal appropriations, and the administration has little authority to shift funding without congressional approval. The Senate Appropriations Committee was not aware of any authority that would allow the Defense Department to fund the wall without congressional approval, said a GOP aide.Sanders said Tuesday that Trump would work with the White House counsel to make sure any action taken was within his executive authority. And she insisted the "continuation of building the wall is ongoing and we're going to continue moving forward in that process."Building the wall was one of Trump's top campaign promises, and the idea that drew the loudest cheers from supporters at his rallies. Trump also insisted he'd make Mexico pay for the construction. But Mexico has made clear it has no intention of doing so directly.Trump has also proposed making Mexico pay for the wall indirectly through measures such as increasing visa fees, imposing new tariffs and targeting remittances.__Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro and Lolita C. Baldor contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »SYDNEY, Australia — China has denied entry to a Chinese-born Australian who was traveling to Shanghai with his mother to return his father’s ashes to the land of his birth, he said on Wednesday.John Hugh, 51, who has been an outspoken critic of the Chinese Communist Party’s efforts to influence Australian politics, said he was sent back to Sydney soon after his flight landed in Shanghai on Tuesday night.He said he was met by Chinese officials before disembarking and told that he would be put on the next flight back to Australia.“I asked what the reason was and they just said, ‘You should know,’” he said.In the book, “Silent Invasion,” by Clive Hamilton, Mr. Hugh is quoted criticizing the party’s efforts to limit dissent, not just in China but in Australia. “It’s retaliation for what we’ve done — for not cooperating with them, for being an independent voice,” he said on Wednesday.Mr. Hugh is the founder of the Embrace Australian Values Alliance, which says it promotes democracy, freedom of speech and rule of law while aiming to counter Communist Party repression.His brief detention and return to Australia suggest that Chinese officials are paying close attention to Australia’s intensifying debate about China’s influence, and that despite increased scrutiny, they believe they can accept or reject members of the Chinese diaspora as they please.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It’s deplorable that John Hugh was prevented from entering China, particularly if this was punishment for his political activity in Australia,” said David Brophy, a senior lecturer in Chinese history at the University of Sydney.“China uses all sorts of techniques, including visa bans and denial of entry, to exclude people from the body politic,” Professor Brophy said.But he warned that Australia should avoid adopting a similar approach, an idea that he said was floated in “Silent Invasion.”“What I’m anxious about is that we don’t follow China down the same path,” Professor Brophy said. “In his book, Clive Hamilton proposes denying residency to Chinese immigrants who are identified as actively ‘pro-Beijing.’ That’s the same approach as the P.R.C. — excluding people from our society on the basis of their political opinions,” he said, referring to the People’s Republic of China.Mr. Hugh, who moved to Australia from China in 1990, said he had returned many times before without trouble.He said the officials in Shanghai were generally polite. They allowed his mother to enter the country with his father’s ashes but were firm about his own return to Sydney, he said.The rejection at the airport was difficult, he said. His father died with Mr. Hugh and his mother on a flight to Los Angeles from Sydney in October, he said, and it took months to arrange for his remains to be returned to Australia and to make plans for a family return to China.He said Chinese officials were using him to send a message to other ethnic Chinese residents of Australia: “You’ll pay the price for not being a Communist voice.”Go to Home Page »VARNA, Bulgaria —  The European Union holds an uneasy summit with Turkey on Monday, when it is likely to provide Ankara with fresh cash to extend a deal on Syrian refugees but deflect Turkish demands for deeper trade ties and visa-free travel to Europe.With the bloc critical of what it considers to be Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's growing authoritarianism at home and his intervention in Syria's war, Brussels had hesitated to agree to the summit.But host Bulgaria viewed the meeting at the Black Sea port of Varna as a rare chance for dialogue with the country that remains a candidate for EU membership despite years of stalled talks.EU leaders also cited Turkey's importance as a NATO ally on Europe's southern flank and in curbing immigration to Europe from the Middle East and Africa."I am looking with mixed feelings towards the Varna summit because the differences in views between the EU and Turkey are many," said European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, who will represent the bloc along with European Council President Donald Tusk."It will be a frank and open debate, where we will not hide our differences but will seek to improve our cooperation," Juncker told reporters on Friday after a two-day EU summit that discussed Turkey.At that meeting in Brussels, leaders condemned what they said were Turkey's illegal actions in a standoff over eastern Mediterranean gas reserves with bloc members Greece and Cyprus.But in a familiar pattern of public recrimination, Turkey's minister for EU affairs, Omer Celik, said Ankara viewed the summit as "an important opportunity to move our relations forward" and that he expected "the same positive and constructive approach from the EU".Erdogan will seek more money for Syrian refugees, a deeper customs union and progress in talks on letting Turks visit Europe without visas, a Turkish foreign ministry spokesman said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.'LAST CHANCE'EU money is likely to be forthcoming, but little else, EU officials and diplomats said.The bloc is set to grant Turkey a second 3 billion euro ($3.7 billion) tranche to provide for the Syrians it hosts under a March 2016 deal to take in migrants fleeing the country's war.However, EU diplomats said that Erdogan's invitation to Varna will come at the price of more sharp criticism from EU counterparts who say that Turkey has been backsliding on democracy and human rights since a failed coup in July 2016.Some 50,000 people, including journalists, have been arrested while a further 150,000, including teachers, judges and soldiers, have been sacked or suspended from their jobs since the attempted coup."The meeting in Varna is likely to be one of the last opportunities to maintain dialogue," said Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, whose nation holds the EU's rotating presidency.Despite the need for Turkey's cooperation on security and foreign policy, the EU should maintain a tough line, said Marc Pierini, a former EU ambassador to Turkey, now at the Carnegie Europe think-tank."It's quite tempting for EU politicians to go for a transactional relationship with Turkey, but Erdogan is not going to stop EU-bashing for his nationalist agenda," he Pierini.(Additional reporting by Robin Emmott; Writing by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by David Goodman)Go to Home Page »Supported byLetterTo the Editor:I am saddened by many things done and said in the Trump administration. But no act has been as cruel as the decision to end Temporary Protected Status for the nearly 200,000 Salvadorans living in the United States, many of whom have been living, working and raising families here for more than 20 years.What possible good can it do for the United States to send a hard-working, taxpaying people back “home,” a place devastated by a long civil war where gang violence reigns?The Temporary Protected Status program was not meant as a pathway to citizenship, but what better way to judge a person’s worthiness for citizenship? What more proof do we need that a person who enters the country illegally out of fear for his life (or a life of utter poverty) will make a good citizen than over 20 years of being gainfully employed and paying taxes?ERIKA BERRY, BALTIMORECollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWith hundreds of diplomats in Washington, Moscow and European capitals packing their bags as the tensions stemming from the poisoning of a former Russian spy living in Britain have worsened, the Trump team is eyeing additional sanctions and other measures against Russia. But while aides say the president has become increasingly convinced that Russia is dangerous, he has still refused to embrace a tougher public posture himself and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go.Mr. Trump has emphasized the importance of dialogue with Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin, yet the departure of so many diplomats expelled from both Russia and the United States will make it that much harder to maintain a semblance of normal relations between the two countries. Cooperation in areas as varied as agriculture, counterterrorism, military affairs and space exploration could diminish, as could private travel and business dealings.The perils of the diplomatic breakdown came into sharper relief on Friday. Russia’s ambassador in Washington lamented that no one would meet with him, and his embassy complained that Russian diplomats were being harassed by American intelligence agencies eager to recruit them.The Pentagon, for its part, said that it had no notice of a test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile conducted by Russia and announced on Friday, a lack of communication that experts worry could lead to miscalculation.While Mr. Tillerson is on the way out, his designated successor, Mike Pompeo, and the incoming national security adviser, John R. Bolton, are both considered even more hawkish on Russia.At the same time, some officials at the Pentagon have expressed caution about the escalating conflict with Russia, citing consequences in Syria, where the United States and Russia have both conducted military operations.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump made no mention of the poisoning of Mr. Skripal during the call but instead suggested that he wanted to schedule a summit meeting with the Russian president.Both countries still have ambassadors in place, so high-level contact on potentially calamitous matters should continue, as it did at the height of the Cuban missile crisis. But the wheels of basic diplomacy, involving visas, consular services, cultural events and simply talking to people, are grinding ever more slowly and, in some cases, coming to a halt.“The embassy is struggling to do basic operations. This latest round will hurt,” said Michael A. McFaul, who served as ambassador in Moscow from 2012 to 2014. “Morale, of course, is also very low.”Even before this week’s expulsions, the wait in Moscow to obtain a visitor’s visa to the United States was among the longest in the world. It now takes 250 days just to get an appointment with the visa section, compared with four in Beijing and 31 in New Delhi.An American spokesman told Russian news media this week that the embassy had been placed under “significant constraints” by the Foreign Ministry and “could not accommodate all their many requests at all times, particularly for large groups.”Simon Schuchat, a former diplomat at the embassy in the Moscow, recalled how haphazard and unnerving it was when Russia began the process of ousting alleged spies during a round of expulsions in 2001. Inevitably, Moscow ordered out diplomats unconnected to espionage.“They tended to go for people with better language skills,” Mr. Schuchat said, adding that they “missed many spies and included many non-spies.”This time around, intelligence officers working under “official cover” as diplomats were especially targeted, but some American officials played down the impact, saying the United States still came out ahead in the expulsions.“That’s to our benefit,” Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, said at a seminar on Thursday in Austin, Tex. “There are a lot more Russians in America than Americans in Russia in the intelligence agencies.”On Friday, Russia’s Foreign Ministry accused the agencies overseen by Mr. Coats of exploiting the situation by approaching Russian diplomats leaving the United States to offer “assistance” in exchange for “entering into covert relations” on behalf of the American government.Peter Baker reported from Washington, Andrew Higgins from Moscow, and Steven Erlanger from Brussels. Gardiner Harris contributed reporting from Washington, Matthew Luxmoore from Moscow, and Eric Schmitt from Austin, Tex.Go to Home Page »Supported byThe driver was drunk, the police said, his blood alcohol content nearly three times the legal limit. One of his victims was an N.F.L. linebacker who was just reaching his prime.But on Tuesday, two days after the crash, it was the driver’s immigration status that moved President Trump to post his first tweet of the morning.Decades of research have shown that immigrants are less prone to commit crimes and to be incarcerated than people born in the United States. But more and more lately, Mr. Trump has been using individual criminal cases to advance an argument that illegal immigration, as well as many forms of legal immigration, is dangerous to Americans and must be curbed.Now the White House, along with some Republicans in Congress, is arguing that any deal to protect hundreds of thousands of young immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation must include provisions to tighten border security and roll back some types of legal immigration.Here’s how a linebacker’s death became part of that debate.The car had stopped along the side of Interstate 70 in Indianapolis so Mr. Monroe could get out to help Mr. Jackson, who was sick, when Manuel Orrego-Savala’s Ford truck drove onto the emergency shoulder and plowed into them, the Indiana State Police said. He struck both men, heaving one of their bodies into the highway’s center lane.When a state trooper saw the wreckage on the side of the road shortly after, he headed toward the crash, hitting the man lying in the middle of the highway in the process, the police said. (The police did not say which man the trooper struck.)Mr. Monroe, 54, and Mr. Jackson, 26, were pronounced dead at the scene. Mr. Orrego-Savala was arrested as he tried to flee on foot.The state police said that Mr. Orrego-Savala was living in the United States illegally, having been deported to Guatemala twice before. He had been convicted of driving under the influence in California in 2005, and his record also showed “many other” misdemeanor convictions and arrests in Indiana and California, said Nicole Alberico, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal immigration agency.Besides a border wall and other measures to discourage illegal immigration, the president wants to curb two forms of legal immigration. He wants to end the diversity visa lottery, which offers people from countries that do not normally send large numbers of immigrants to the United States a chance at a green card, regardless of whether they have special skills or relatives in the United States. The president also wants to restrict family-based immigration, the system that has given millions of visas to relatives of American citizens and permanent residents, in favor of a more merit-based system.Last week, in a news release that began with the words, “Our current immigration system jeopardizes our national security and puts American communities at risk,” the White House listed 15 people accused or convicted of terrorism-related crimes who it said had arrived either through the diversity visa lottery or family ties.Homeland Security officials have estimated that about 1.9 million noncitizens living in the country, whether legally or illegally, have been convicted of criminal offenses. About 820,000 of those people may be in the country illegally, including about 300,000 with felony convictions, according to the Migration Policy Institute, a research group that has opposed Mr. Trump’s proposals to cut immigration.Experts say the evidence does not show that immigrants are more dangerous than native-born Americans. Among men ages 18 to 49, immigrants were one-half to one-fifth as likely to be incarcerated as those born in the United States, according to census data, though that proportion rises significantly when only federal inmates are counted. Yet about one-third of noncitizen federal inmates are serving time only for immigration-related offenses, such as slipping back into the country after being deported.Some of the most vocal family members have continued to press their cause in Washington, where one such group, Advocates for Victims of Illegal Alien Crime, was meeting with several members of Congress on Tuesday. They said they were planning to mention Mr. Jackson’s death in their conversations.Mary Ann Mendoza, the mother of a police officer killed in a drunken-driving crash with an unauthorized immigrant in 2014, said the group was trying to reach Mr. Jackson’s family to offer support.“We want to let them know that we are a group of people at AVIAC who have experienced the same sort of loss they have,” she said. “They can join us in our fight.”“I don’t think Edwin would have judged anyone on where they were from or anything else,” he said.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBefore reading the article:As you listen, read along with the transcript, and take notes.What questions do you have about the program, the president’s stance on it, or any other aspect of it?Finally, tell us more about what you think:How, and why, has the term “chain migration” become a point of contention between Democrats and Republicans?Do you agree with either side’s viewpoint? Why or why not? If so, what reasoning do you give for supporting your answer?See More »Go to Home Page »The entrepreneurs will qualify for a skilled-worker visa, known as an H-1B. Applicants need an employer to sponsor them for the visas, which are extremely limited: The visas are capped at 65,000 a year, with another 20,000 available for foreign students who have earned graduate degrees in the United States. Last year, 233,000 people entered the lottery for the visas, with about two-thirds of them losing out.But people working with nonprofits and institutions of higher education are exempt from the caps, and IN2NYC will use its partnerships with CUNY to help the entrepreneurs get the visas.Mr. Ryan said many New York companies had to hire employees abroad, so being able to keep talent in the city was a priority. “It’s not as impactful as opening up the number of H-1B visas,” he said, “but it’s a great step forward.”Maria Torres-Springer, the president of the development corporation, said the program would build on New York’s history of being a welcoming place to immigrants. “We’re seeing innovation hubs really beginning to blossom all over the city,” she said, mentioning a clean-technology incubator she recently visited in Brooklyn, made up mostly of immigrant workers.“The program builds on the momentum, in a way where international entrepreneurs who want to relocate in the city now have a pathway to do that, as opposed to navigating what is currently a complex system.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.IN2NYC will work with seven campuses: Baruch College, City College, the College of Staten Island, LaGuardia Community College, Lehman College, Medgar Evers College and Queens College.Entrepreneurs will form a board of directors, most of whom will be American citizens or permanent residents, to establish the employer-employee relationship that an H-1B visa requires. Since entrepreneurs will be employed at a college for more than half their time, collaborating with professors and students, they will be exempt from the H-1B visa caps.“The impact of an immigration lawyer to help the next Elon Musk with no visa or a college student with no status has never been more significant,” said Peter F. Asaad, the managing legal partner of Immigration Solutions Group, an immigration law firm in Washington that is providing counsel to New York City.Mr. Musk, the founder of SpaceX and the co-founder of Tesla Motors, was born in South Africa and came to the United States as a college student. Mr. Brin, the co-founder of Google, was born in Russia.Mr. Asaad has advised New York City on previous immigration programs involving entrepreneurs, and he thinks there will be a large pool of applicants who will already have “substantial amounts of angel investors and other sources believing in their company.”The development corporation expects that each entrepreneur will initially employ at least three people. Applications will be accepted in late spring, with the program scheduled to start in autumn.Mr. Ryan sees only an upside.“Even if there are only a certain number who take advantage of this,” he said, “one of them will end up starting a really successful company, and that company will employ 500 people and create huge tax dollars. So this will pay off for New York City.”Go to Home Page »Supported byupdateSeveral factors are appearing to dampen interest in visiting Russia for the 2018 World Cup, at least for soccer fans in the United States and England.Mr. Wiersema added that in a country as diverse as the United States, there are plenty of Americans who will be rooting for other teams competing in Russia — but ticket sales show a clear drop in interest from Americans compared to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.“In Brazil, American fans had a huge presence. Being in a relatively similar time zone and an attractive destination made it very easy for an American fan to travel there,” Mr. Wiersema said.“You’re talking about a country that has a great rail network and is relatively close to East Coast-based airports. When you put that all together as an American soccer fan and a travel fan, there’s a lot of people who have eyeballs on it,” Mr. Wiersema said.Mr. Wiersema, whose group sent more than 500 members to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, also cited potential worries related to Russia’s geopolitical situation, the violent reputation of some of its soccer fans and its government’s position on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.Still, do not expect to see many empty seats at this year’s World Cup, which is easily one of the most anticipated sporting events every four years.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON — The parents of the first lady, Melania Trump, have obtained lawful permanent residency in the United States, a lawyer for the couple confirmed Wednesday, but it remains unclear how or when the couple received their green cards.The lack of clarity about when and how Viktor and Amalija Knavs obtained their legal residencies raises questions about whether the couple secured their residency through family-based immigration, which President Trump calls chain migration and has said he wants to restrict. Immigration experts said it would have been the most direct, and most likely, way for Mrs. Trump’s parents, formerly of Slovenia, to get their green cards.Their immigration lawyer, Michael J. Wildes, declined to offer any details.“It’s a privilege to help this family, but I have to respect their privacy as well,” Mr. Wildes said in a brief interview.“Immigration is in our DNA,” he added. “We have to take great pride, no matter where somebody hails from, in that legacy.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It would be odd if she sponsored her parents and didn’t want to talk about that because it’s a fairly routine thing,” said Hiroshi Motomura, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who specializes in immigration law. “It only becomes sensitive if her husband is taking a position against this.”“In some ways, lawful permanent resident status is the best of all visas,” said Kevin R. Johnson, the dean of the law school at the University of California, Davis, who has taught immigration law. “It’s the Cadillac of immigrant visas because it allows you a path to citizenship.”But Mr. Trump has vilified the program as a way for terrorists to enter the United States and has called for aspects of the program to be eliminated as part of immigration reform.It also might have been possible, Mr. Johnson said, for the Knavses, both in their 70s, to obtain residency through an investment visa or a work visa, although the latter would involve employer sponsorship. Mr. Knavs, a former traveling car salesman, and Mrs. Knavs, who used to design patterns for children’s clothes, both appear to be retired.Immigrants can also apply for asylum or enter the diversity lottery, a path that offers limited numbers of visas. Mr. Trump has also criticized the diversity lottery, which allows admission to immigrants from countries that do not send many people to the United States.“If somebody came to me and asked me how to become a citizen, the first question I would ask is ‘Do you have an American citizen as a relative?’” said Theresa Cardinal Brown, the director of immigration and cross-border policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington. “That is the fastest and most direct route to getting a green card.”In his State of the Union address, Mr. Trump described a four-pillar immigration plan and continued to criticize the family-based immigration program, eliciting boos from Democrats in the chamber.“Under the current broken system, a single immigrant can bring in virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives,” he said. “This vital reform is necessary, not just for our economy, but for our security, and our future.”An earlier version of this article misstated Mr. Trump’s plans for family-based immigration. The president would limit it to spouses and children under 21, but would not include parents.See More »Go to Home Page »Within hours of the program’s broadcast, the British police released a statement on Ms. Skripal’s behalf, in which she said that she “woke up over a week ago now” and that her “strength is growing daily.”The authorities have released little information about the attack on Mr. Skripal and his daughter, but they have expressed certainty that it was carried out on behalf of the Russian government. Officials have said Mr. Skripal, a former Russian spy turned double agent who was living peacefully in southwestern England, was very likely targeted as an example to future defectors. Moscow has denied the accusations and has seized on the ambiguities surrounding the investigation in an aggressive campaign to discredit the British authorities.At the United Nations on Thursday, the Russian ambassador, Vasily A. Nebenzya, called an emergency session of the Security Council where he accused the British authorities of everything from planting false stories in the media to neglecting Mr. Skripal’s pet cats and guinea pigs. He gave an impromptu lecture about Dostoyevsky’s “Crime and Punishment” and quoted at length from “Alice in Wonderland.”“This is some kind of theater of the absurd,” he said. “What, you were unable to find a more believable fake?”Diane Abbott, another Labour leader, took aim at Mr. Johnson in an interview with the BBC, saying, “so many people were willing to rush to the media and say it was unequivocally Putin.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We will, I hope, get some credit for taking a more thoughtful approach and asking the right questions,” she said.At the Security Council, Britain’s closest allies reiterated their support for the conclusion that Russia was behind the poisoning.“We share the U.K.’s assessment, namely that there is no other plausible explanation other than Russia’s responsibility,” said France’s ambassador, François Delattre. His sentiments were echoed by the representatives from the United States, Sweden, the Netherlands and others.In her remarks to the Security Council, Britain’s ambassador, Karen Pierce, responded calmly to the barrage of Russian accusations, providing what she described as “intellectual clarity.”About 250 police detectives are involved in the investigation, she said. They are reviewing 5,000 hours of surveillance video, examining 1,300 exhibits and interviewing 500 witnesses. “The U.K. has launched one of the most comprehensive and complex investigations into the use of a chemical weapon ever,” Ms. Pierce said.She also brought some of her own literary references. Responding to Mr. Nebenzya, who a few weeks ago compared British investigators on the case to the hapless Inspector Lestrade from the Sherlock Holmes stories, Ms. Pierce compared Russia to Holmes’s nemesis, Professor Moriarty.A new challenge could come within a few days if Viktoria Skripal, Mr. Skripal’s niece, follows through on plans to travel to Britain. Alexander Yakovenko, the Russian ambassador in London, said at a news conference on Thursday that he had offered Ms. Skripal assistance with transport, accommodation and Russian-English translation during her visit.In the conversation broadcast Thursday on Russian television, Yulia Skripal tells her cousin that she will probably not get a British visa and they probably would be unable to see each other.Michael Schwirtz contributed reporting from the United Nations.Go to Home Page »The purchase of its former European subsidiary will allow Visa to better compete against Mastercard in Europe, says an analyst. Fred Katayama reports.Supported byOp-Ed ContributorAnother problem with the proposal, though, may be that it is not bold enough in dealing with the full expanse of our immigration policy.The only way to truly curtail illegal immigration may require that all employers use an electronic system like E-Verify to certify the legal status of newly hired workers, accompanied by sizable penalties for employers who break the law.Those who argue that getting rid of chain migration is racist are just throwing scare words into the fire to choke debate. Our current system lets a new immigrant eventually sponsor the entry of her brother, who can then sponsor the entry of his wife, who can sponsor her father, who can sponsor his sister, and so on. Does it really make sense for one entry today to eventually lead to a visa for the immigrant’s sister-in-law’s aunt?Finally, President Trump’s proposal attempts to bring some economic sense into immigration policy. It would get rid of the lottery and reallocate some of those visas to high-skilled workers. This is a step in the right direction, as long as we care about the economic benefits from immigration. But the reallocation of fewer than 50,000 visas would barely make a dent.Perhaps a bigger objection is the three big issues it leaves off the table, and perhaps bringing those issues back into the realm of the possible would allow for a better deal.The debate over illegal immigration will not end if Congress enacts the president’s proposal. If the government grants amnesty to nearly two million Dreamers, there will still be at least nine million illegal immigrants left behind “in the shadows.” Would anyone be surprised if there were then continuing discussions about how to package the plight of those nine million illegal immigrants in a way that highlighted their suffering and that forced politicians to pay immediate attention to their situation?Those who have a gut reaction against regularizing the status of nine million illegal immigrants may need to bite the bullet. Their reluctance is understandable — our last attempt at an amnesty, in 1986, failed, and did not solve the problem. But there is little appetite, and rightly so, for deporting nine million people. Most of those immigrants have been our neighbors for many years, have stayed out of legal trouble and have deep roots in our communities.Perhaps bringing them into the debate today would let us reach a better solution to the festering immigration problem.But let’s also be realistic and acknowledge up front that the road to a deal is going to be very bumpy.A sensible immigration policy that generates economic benefits for Americans and for immigrants already here ensures that we can better adapt to the economic shocks that will visit us in the next few decades. And the best way to maximize those benefits is to filter the pool of persons who want to migrate.Before jumping in to claim that such “filtering” is un-American, it’s worth remembering that anything short of open borders inevitably involves filtering. Between the 1920s and 1965, the filtering was done through national origin, giving preference to immigrants born in Western European countries. Since 1965, we have preferred immigrants who have relatives already living here. Filtering on the basis of economic potential ensures that immigration generates the largest possible economic gain for our country.There is some concern that whatever deal the Trump administration reaches will be easily undone by the next administration. I’m not so sure this is a valid point. History teaches us that it is extremely difficult to change immigration policy. The stars aligned only twice in the past century: once in the 1920s and then again in the 1960s.Given the nature of the policy shifts that some politicians tried to ram through under the label “comprehensive immigration reform,” it is not surprising that the label became loaded and maligned. Nevertheless, President Trump’s proposal opens the door for a truly comprehensive attempt at simultaneously tackling all the big issues that confront us.George Borjas is a professor of economics and social policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and the author of, most recently, “We Wanted Workers: Unraveling the Immigration Narrative.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSKAMPALA, Uganda —  Streets. Schools. A bridge in Burkina Faso. The name of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. can be found across Africa, a measure of the global influence of the American civil rights leader who was shot dead 50 years ago after speaking out against injustices at home and abroad.A school for poor children that is named after King in Uganda's capital, Kampala, took as its motto, "Have a Dream," borrowing a line from one of King's most famous speeches."Martin Luther King stood for human rights and equality, so we wanted a way of inspiring and motivating our students," said Robert Mpala, the school's founder.In rural Liberia, a West African nation founded by freed American slaves, one official spoke proudly of a privately owned Martin Luther King School. "Martin Luther King was a great man. We still follow his dream," said J. Maxime Bleetahn, director of communications at the Ministry of Education.Africa's push for independence from colonialism, which mirrored King's own movement for racial equality in America, attracted the civil rights leader's attention and support.King first set foot on the continent in March 1957 to attend celebrations marking the West African nation of Ghana's independence from Britain.After he returned to Africa in November 1960 to attend the inauguration of Nigeria's first president, King said African leaders had told him "in no uncertain terms that racism and colonialism must go, for they see the two as based on the same principle."The parallels between King's efforts and Africans' quest for independence were perhaps strongest in apartheid-era South Africa, where racist laws oppressed the majority black community for decades.In December 1965 King delivered a speech in New York denouncing South Africa's white rulers as "spectacular savages and brutes" and called on the U.S. and Europe to boycott the nation, a strategy the West eventually embraced and that helped end white rule.King was unable to visit South Africa after being denied a visa. But years later a bust of King was slipped secretly — by diplomatic pouch — into a South Africa still in the grip of apartheid.American sculptor Zenos Frudakis said the U.S. government approached him about creating a bust of King that would be installed in South Africa for "political impact." As it was barred by South Africa's government from being displayed in a public space, the sculpture was dedicated in 1989 at the U.S. Embassy, visible to people outside the embassy fence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.People who were part of the struggle against apartheid spoke at the sculpture's dedication, and Frudakis said he was impressed "as they were risking their lives to bring equality and freedom to everyone in South Africa."Today, the bust of King remains on display in a vastly different South Africa, which was transformed after anti-apartheid activist Nelson Mandela was freed from prison in 1990 and elected the country's first black president four years later.Mandela was keenly aware of King's contribution to equal rights and mentioned him when accepting the Nobel Peace Prize along with South Africa's last apartheid-era president, F.W. de Klerk, in 1993."Let the strivings of us all prove Martin Luther King Jr. to have been correct when he said that humanity can no longer be tragically bound to the starless midnight of racism and war," Mandela said. The Nelson Mandela Foundation plans to mark the anniversary of King's assassination.King's inspirational speeches on love and justice, as well as his insistence on non-violent resistance, continue to resonate among some intellectuals and political activists in Africa, where many countries are now ruled by strongmen or democracy is in decline.The civil rights leader was frequently cited by Ugandan activists last year as lawmakers moved to pass a bill that could keep the longtime president in power for many years more."We as a nation must recognize what Martin Luther King Jr. referred to as the 'the fierce urgency of now,'" one opposition activist, Mugisha Muntu, said at the time. "We too must make our voices heard."___Associated Press writers Cara Anna in Johannesburg and Jonathan Paye-Layleh in Monrovia, Liberia, contributed.___For AP's complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJrGo to Home Page »Supported byFrugal TravelerA handful of practical tips to help make sure your next trip to the world’s most populous country is smooth sailing from start to finish.China is one of the world’s most exciting and rewarding places to visit, but can be intimidating even to experienced travelers, who might struggle with communication and lack of familiarity with rules and customs. Here’s a handful of practical tips to help make sure your trip to the world’s most populous country is smooth sailing from start to finish.Cashless payment in China requires a Chinese bank card, which you can’t get unless you’re a citizen or resident. Don’t count on businesses accepting your foreign credit card, either — you’ll frequently find yourself out of luck. So load up on cash when you can — fortunately, I’ve never had trouble finding A.T.M.s in Chinese cities, and withdrawing from Chinese currency with my American debit card has been trouble-free. If you want to play it safe, you can exchange for some at your local bank before you go.While you should always remain alert, China is remarkably safe for foreigners. In total, I’ve spent over a year in China, and have never felt in danger or threatened while walking around, no matter the hour.Chinese traffic, however, can be horrendous, and navigating streets as a pedestrian is always an adventure. Buckle up when in a vehicle, and be extremely careful when crossing the street: Cars do not necessarily yield to pedestrians, and motorcycles and scooters do not seem to yield to anything — not even red lights.While you won’t be able to buy a SIM card for your phone that includes a Chinese phone number, data plans with 4G speed are available for foreigners. Check at the airport (I bought one in a convenience store), or at the hostel or hotel where you’re staying, and be ready to show your passport.Wi-Fi is everywhere in China, from the pricey malls of Shanghai to modest mom-and-pop restaurants in the smaller cities. The bad news is that you won’t be able to access it some of the time, as it frequently requires you to enter a local phone number to receive a Wi-Fi access code.There are ways to circumvent this. Having a WeChat account will grant access to certain Wi-Fi networks. I also use a Google Voice number to receive internet access codes, which works part of the time. But wait — isn’t Google blocked in China? That brings us to …The Chinese government does a fairly thorough job censoring websites and traffic from sources it deems potentially unsavory or damaging to the ruling Communist Party. Say goodbye to Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, any Google-related services (including Gmail), and even (gasp!) The New York Times.One obvious, but essential, tip: Download and set up your VPN before you leave for China. Once you’re there, you’ll be blocked from downloading any VPNs.If you’re like me, you’ve come to depend on Google Maps considerably during your travels. In China, you would be wise to rid yourself of that notion. Even with a VPN, Google Maps in China is filled with incomplete or sometimes just flat-out incorrect information. For example: There are no fewer than six subway lines currently operating in Chengdu. According to Google Maps, there are just two.You’ll notice plenty of well-maintained public restrooms in China, but they’re not always stocked with toilet paper. You would be wise to carry a small stash with you. This applies to napkins in restaurants as well — at smaller, more casual places, diners are expected to have their own supply on hand.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSThe following is a way you could potentially get T.S.A. PreCheck or Global Entry for free:Spending a certain amount on SkyMall catalog purchases.Getting accepted to certain credit card programs.Joining T.S.A.’s new frequent traveler points program.For a budget-friendly trip, the Frugal Traveler suggests avoiding destinations that have been recovering from Hurricanes Maria and Irma.TrueFalseWhen planning a trip to Norway, consider staying in a luxury hotel, even if you’re on a budget.TrueFalseThe following can ensure that your medication does not get confiscated at an airport:Do research in advance, as laws vary by country.Know the names and amounts of active ingredients.Carry all medication in original, clearly marked containers in your carry-on luggage.Know the names and amounts of active ingredients.All of the above.The standard rules for liquid carry-ons don’t apply to medications in liquid or gel form.TrueFalseThe amount you pay for a charter flight could be a factor in how safe it will be.TrueFalseBrazil has lowered its visa application fee for Americans from $160 to:$40$80$120It still costs $160.Lynda Turley, an adviser at Alpine Travel of Saratoga, specializes in wine-focused trips, suggests limiting the amount of wineries you visit in one day to:1234As many as you can.The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee is raising new questions about the fiancé visa granted to the Pakistani woman who with her husband carried out the massacre in San Bernardino, Calif., saying her application shows she may not have met a core requirement for the visa.The chairman, Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, a Republican, said on Friday that he had received a copy of the immigration file of Tashfeen Malik, 29, who came to the United States in July 2014 on a K-1 fiancé visa she received based on an application by her husband-to-be, Syed Rizwan Farook. Mr. Goodlatte said the records did not include conclusive evidence that Ms. Malik and Mr. Farook, a United States citizen who lived in California, had ever met before her visa was issued.The Judiciary Committee had said it planned to release Ms. Malik’s files late Friday, but later said they could not be made public immediately. “We are making sure that we are not jeopardizing any ongoing criminal investigation,” a committee aide said.To obtain a K-1 visa, a couple must demonstrate that they met in person at least once within two years before the application was filed. Mr. Goodlatte said Ms. Malik and Mr. Farook had presented as their evidence copies of their passports, containing entry stamps for Saudi Arabia.She entered Saudi Arabia on “approximately” June 4, 2013, according to a Judiciary Committee news release, and he entered on Oct. 1, 2013, and left on “approximately” Oct. 20, 2013. But Ms. Malik’s passport does not have any legible stamp showing when she left Saudi Arabia, the committee said. The only other evidence in the file, Mr. Goodlatte said, was a statement by the couple that they had been together in Saudi Arabia.Mr. Goodlatte is a fierce critic of the Obama administration and has argued that visa vetting is lax. Mr. Goodlatte said that even if the couple had met in person in Saudi Arabia, “there is insufficient evidence in the file” for an immigration officer to have made that determination.A Department of Homeland Security spokesman, Todd Breasseale, said Friday that law enforcement officials had asked the committee to hold Ms. Malik’s file until they could review it to make sure nothing is released that would violate privacy rules or hinder the investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Officials have said that she was extensively vetted and that no irregularities were discovered.It has been unclear from family accounts when the couple first met in person. Mr. Farook and Ms. Malik met on an online dating site in about 2013, and friends and relatives have said that both families went to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, in July 2013 for the annual pilgrimage known as hajj.Ms. Malik and Mr. Farook died in a shootout with the police after the attack on Dec. 2, which killed 14 people and wounded 22.Go to Home Page »Britain has financial and diplomatic weapons it can use against Russia to respond to the suspected poisoning of a former spy with a nerve agent, but it is unclear how willing the government is to wield them, or that they would influence the behavior of the Kremlin.Britain’s strongest stance against President Vladimir V. Putin’s government would involve taking action both on its own and in cooperation with its allies, diplomatic and security analysts have said.But it is too soon to gauge how much appetite those allies have to stand up to Russia on Britain’s behalf. The Kremlin is also likely to retaliate for any measures Britain takes, and past governments have been unwilling to engage in such an escalating fight.Though Mrs. May has not hinted what her government might do, politicians and policy experts have suggested a number of punitive actions.The British government has historically asked few questions about where wealthy foreigners’ money comes from, helping make London a favorite place for people from other countries to invest.The risk posed by such unilateral action is not just that Russia could respond, but that its retaliation would be aimed solely at Britain.British law makes it fairly simple to hide the ownership of assets through opaque shell corporations; the multimillion-dollar homes of wealthy expatriates are often bought by such companies.“The openness and attractiveness of London is particular to London,” said James Nixey, head of the Russia and Eurasia program at Chatham House, a London think tank. “That is something the U.K. can change on its own.”Kori N. Schake, deputy director of the International Institute of Strategic Studies, advocated taking transparency further.“We should publish Putin’s bank details, what we know of his property and that of his kids,” she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In addition to expelling suspected spies, Britain could re-examine some of the other Russians it has allowed to live in the country.Like many countries, Britain allows wealthy people to bypass the usual laborious process for getting a long-term residence visa. The deal is simple: Invest millions of dollars, and get a visa.“The whole idea that money gives you access to state protection is quite ridiculous, quite wrong,” said Kadri Liik, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, based in London.Critics said for years that the program was too lax and required little in the way of background checks. In 2015, the government tightened the rules, and the number of people receiving investor visas dropped sharply.In the past week, analysts have said that Britain could restrict the program more, revisit visas granted under the old rules, and revoke the residency of people with shady histories.Britain can call on NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and the United States to help it take action against Russia, but each approach has drawbacks.Since 2014, the European Union and the United States have imposed sanctions on Russia over its aggression in Ukraine, which have hurt the Russian economy, but have shown no signs of altering Russian conduct. And European countries, heavily dependent on Russian oil and gas exports, have not been eager to strain relations with Moscow further.While European officials were quick to condemn the use of a nerve agent, and an attempted murder on British soil, President Trump, whose administration is enmeshed in investigations into Russian election manipulation, has made no public statement about it.Some diplomats and security analysts have said that Britain should invoke NATO’s Article 4, which says that member nations “will consult together whenever, in the opinion of any of them, the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the parties is threatened.” That consultation could be powerful symbolically but might not yield any substantive result.The provision is usually interpreted as applying to actions on a far larger scale than attempted murder, said Adam Thomson, a former British ambassador to NATO and head of the European Leadership Network.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  When Wuilly Arteaga takes his violin out of its brown case and starts playing Rihanna's "This Is What You Came For" near the platform of a busy Manhattan subway station, several passersby stop to listen or shoot video with their phones. Then someone recognizes the violinist and runs to greet him."Brother!" says a fellow Venezuelan in Spanish, taking a selfie with the musician.Arteaga gained international fame as a young face of the Venezuelan opposition, playing his instrument in the streets of Caracas during the deadly protests that rocked the South American country last year. The 24-year-old violinist has gone from dodging tear gas to entertaining New York City commuters as well as playing in Queens, Manhattan and Long Island clubs and bars. He dreams of returning to Venezuela but says it's too dangerous for him to go back now under President Nicolas Maduro's socialist government."I suffered a lot only because I played the violin against the government. I was tortured, I was put in jail. I don't want to repeat that experience. Even though I am here and I feel safe, I fear returning to Venezuela and going through the same thing," he said at the small, empty studio where he lives in Manhattan."My biggest dream is to make music in my country, but for the moment I can't do it," he added.Arteaga walks the cold streets of the city with his violin and a big portable speaker system. Other times he visits a music studio and composes songs for a pop album he dreams of releasing. He is often absorbed in his cellphone, chatting with friends, calling his girlfriend in Venezuela or accepting a gig to play at a Latin club.Even though he smiles in his Instagram posts, where he describes himself as "the hip hop violinist," he says many days he feels alone. Only seeing people enjoy his violin makes him forget his solitude and last year's "stormy" months, as he describes them.The young violinist won notice after playing somber renditions of Venezuela's national anthem during the 2017 protests. During one clash with security forces, he and his violin were dragged to the ground and he was later thrown in jail, where he said he was beaten.He arrived in Manhattan in September, after receiving an invitation from the Human Rights Foundation to play and speak about Venezuela at a forum. Because of threats he says he received by phone and social media, he decided to stay. He plans to start taking English classes and has applied for a visa granted to artists, athletes or people with abilities in science or business.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Because every day I think and remember the many things that I went through in jail, it makes it hard to say I'll be able to be happy at some point. But I think that little by little, I've realized that I can achieve it," he says. "And that's why I am finally ready to make the most out of all the wonderful experiences that I can have in this city."More than 2,000 miles away, oil-rich Venezuela has been sinking deeper into a political and economic crisis. Maduro, who is running for a second six-year term, has drawn criticism abroad and at home for tactics considered dictatorial. Independent groups estimate as many as 3 million to 4 million Venezuelans have abandoned their homeland in recent years, with several hundred thousand fleeing in 2017 alone.In New York, besides focusing on his music, Arteaga still speaks about Venezuela in forums and events in Washington.While there are some who hug him in the streets, there are others who insult him when they recognize him, he says."Venezuela is going through a very dark moment," he said. "Many of us have been forced to leave the country, but that does not mean that we have forgotten about Venezuela or that we have stopped working for the well-being of Venezuelans."___Go to Home Page »I have visited Kosovo frequently since arriving for the first time in late 1998 for a two-week trip. I returned in February 1999 and based myself in Pristina, the capital, until 2005. In the years since, I usually visit Kosovo at least once a year, often more.Much has changed for the land and its people. Returning this winter, I was struck by how the relentless optimism of Kosovars had yielded to disillusionment. The people seemed weighed down by resignation, as well as widespread disgust at perceived government corruption.“I swear to God, if it wasn’t for all those who have laid down their lives for this, I would say let’s go back to the way it was before,” one man told me. “We had a better life then; we had more opportunities.”What he says is a veritable heresy in Kosovo, and he did not want his named used for fear of seeming unpatriotic. Fear is still a fact of life for many.Mitrovica remains a largely frozen and divided city. Fear infuses the Serbian part. One resident described the police as being like flowers, for decoration.I had photographed Mr. Ivanovic many times. He once led a feared paramilitary group that guarded bridges over the Ibar River, which divides the Albanian and Serb areas.Mr. Ivanovic later transformed himself into a more pragmatic politician. Before his death, he had accused the local mafia of controlling the city. Many residents believe the mafia work on behalf of the Serbian capital, Belgrade, and speculate that Mitrovica may yet be formally partitioned.In the rest of Kosovo, Albanian and Serb communities cooperate more. But psychic scars are everywhere, even if the landscape has been transformed by gleaming highways, giant gas stations and shopping malls.The road from the border with Albania, which runs through the city of Gjakova and onto Prizren, is itself like a scar, a poignant reminder of wartime massacres.It runs alongside the mountainous border and was used as a crossing point by the Kosovo Liberation Army rebels during the war. The villages bisected by the road suffered greatly.For many years, the site of the massacre near Meja was marked by simple graves, Muslims and Catholics mixed together. Now it appears that a more permanent memorial is being established. Black marble sarcophagi lie in rows 18 deep and up to 25 across.The same road runs to Gjakova, now rebuilt after much of the town was burned down, including its Ottoman-era bazaar. It then passes through Xerxe and Krushe, broken villages where most of the men were executed.In Gjakova, I visited two women, Nusrete Kumnova and Ferdonije Qerkezi. During the war, Ms. Kumnova’s only son was taken and disappeared. Ms. Qerkezi lost her husband and four sons.The remains of two of Ms. Qerkezi’s sons have since been found and buried. Her husband and the other two sons are still missing.For these women, time does not move on. Ms. Qerkezi has turned her home into a museum dedicated to their memory.Upstairs, their rooms are as they left them. Toys, soccer balls and pieces of clothing are carefully wrapped in plastic.In another room, display cases hold the bullet-ridden clothes of the two sons whose bodies she recovered, a terrible reminder of how their lives ended.She dismisses questions of how she feels about Kosovo’s independence anniversary with a simple, “Pah, don’t ask!”While there is great disappointment with the political and economic situation, there are nonetheless shoots of optimism. Artistically and culturally, Kosovo is booming.Kosovo-born artists like Rita Ora, Dua Lipa and Era Istrefi are regulars on the international music charts. Pristina’s clubs, bars and live music venues — where there are few ethnic boundaries — thrive.Petrit Halilaj, a young artist, was awarded a special jury prize at the Venice Biennale last year.Through a strange twist of fate, I photographed him when he was an 11-year-old refugee lined up at a food distribution point in Kukes, Albania. His wartime experiences still infuse much of his work.On my last day in Kosovo, news broke that Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj had been refused a visa to visit Britain. The reaction seemed to be widespread embarrassment, as he had also recently been refused a visa for the United States.Since its independence declaration, Kosovo has been recognized by just 111 of the United Nation’s 193 member states. Crucially, Russia, China, Serbia and five European Union countries do not recognize it.“For as long as we are stuck in this ghetto, we will have problems,” Arben Berisha, the chairman of the Arsenal supporters club in Kosovo, told me. “We need our young people to go abroad to study and then bring their expertise back.”Driving toward Macedonia to catch my flight home, I took one of the new highways linking Kosovo to Albania, and I couldn’t help wondering: If the prime minister himself can’t travel, what does it mean for the rest of the Kosovars?Crippled by low wages, unemployment, a stagnant economy and an inability to travel, where were all of these bright, shiny highways leading them?Produced by Gaia TripoliGo to Home Page »Janka Nabay, a singer, songwriter and bandleader from Sierra Leone who modernized an ancient tradition called bubu and carried it worldwide, died on Monday in the Kambia District in northern Sierra Leone. He was 54.His American record company, Luaka Bop, said the cause was a stomach illness that had not been diagnosed.Mr. Nabay emigrated from Sierra Leone in 2002. Living in New York City, he started a band, the Bubu Gang, that introduced bubu to an international audience.Ahmed Janka Nabay was born on Jan. 5, 1964, in a rural village, Sedu. He moved with his family to a city, Makeni, at 5, and then, at 14, to Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone.As a teenager he began writing politically minded songs about pan-Africanism. He was also a fan of music from abroad, particularly that of Bob Marley and Michael Jackson, and he concentrated on reggae during his 20s, appearing on Sierra Leone radio stations singing reggae with Arabic lyrics.But his more distinctive songs drew on bubu, music heard at celebrations during Sierra Leone’s Independence Day carnival and during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.In the early 1990s, he wrote “Dance to the Bubu” for a nationwide song contest, with lyrics that proclaimed, “It’s an ancient style of music, but when you try it you never leave it.”The judges appreciated music with local Sierra Leonean roots, and the contest led to Mr. Nabay’s first recording sessions. In his version of bubu, the patterns of the bamboo horns were transferred to keyboard and guitar, and the momentum of hand percussion was taken over by the rhythm section and a drum machine.During the 1990s, his music spread across Sierra Leone and sold tens of thousands of cassettes as he performed in the country’s largest venues. He sang in Temne and in the Sierra Leonean lingua franca, Krio, along with English and Arabic.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2002, Mr. Nabay used an international tour to leave Sierra Leone behind, moving, by way of Guinea in West Africa, to the United States, where he rebuilt his music.In 2017, Mr. Nabay toured Europe for the first time, playing festivals. When the tour ended in August, visa problems prevented him from returning to the United States, and he moved back to Sierra Leone.Mr. Nabay, who lived in Freetown at the time of his death, is survived by his partner, Kadiatu Nabay; and by three children from a previous relationship, Sia Precious Kemoh, Zachariah Osman Nabay and Ahmed Nabay.An earlier version of this obituary misstated the name of the Sierra Leonean lingua franca. It is Krio, not Kiro.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — A broad bipartisan group of senators reached agreement Wednesday on a narrow rewrite of the nation’s immigration laws that would bolster border security and resolve the fate of the so-called Dreamers, even as President Trump suggested he would veto any plan that does not adhere to his harder-line approach.Their compromise legislation sets up a clash pitting the political center of the Senate against Mr. Trump and the Republican congressional leadership.Senators in both parties have been racing against a self-imposed end-of-the-week deadline to write legislation that could win wide support by increasing border security while at the same time offering a path to citizenship for young immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.Members of the bipartisan group, which calls itself the Common Sense Coalition, said their deal does just that. They were working Wednesday evening to determine whether their bill could garner the 60 votes necessary to break a filibuster.“The president’s going to have a vote on his concept. I don’t think it will get 60 votes,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a member of the group, adding: “The bottom line then is: What do you do next? You can do what we’ve done for the last 35 years — blame each other. Or you can actually start fixing the broken immigration system. If you came out of this with strong border security — the president getting his wall and the Dream Act population being taken care of — most Americans would applaud.”Lawmakers are working to extend legal protections for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, but the discussion is complicated by other issues on the table.The bipartisan measure, sponsored by seven Democrats, eight Republicans and one independent, would appropriate $25 billion for border security, including construction of the president’s proposed wall at the Mexican border, over a 10-year period — not immediately, as Mr. Trump demands.It would also offer an eventual path to citizenship, over 10 to 12 years, for 1.8 million of the young undocumented immigrants, but would preclude them from sponsoring their parents to become citizens. It would make no changes to the diversity visa lottery system, which Mr. Trump wants to end.“I am asking all senators, in both parties, to support the Grassley bill and to oppose any legislation that fails to fulfill these four pillars,” Mr. Trump said in the statement, referring to the chief sponsor of the measure, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.Mr. Grassley said that in offering the young immigrants, known as Dreamers, a chance to become citizens, Mr. Trump had been “much more compassionate on a compromise than anybody thought.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Limiting family-based immigration — which Democrats call “family reunification” — and ending the diversity visa lottery are anathema to Democrats. But it was unclear how many Democrats would sign on to the compromise as an alternative.Senate Democrats met in a closed-door session to talk about the coalition’s plan, and lawmakers emerged saying that some of their colleagues, who favor improvements in border security but have been deeply opposed to building a wall, had reservations.“I know that people want to get some certainty for these kids,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota. She said she would support the Common Sense measure, but added, “We’re being asked to make some tough compromises.”“He’s not helpful at all,’’ said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate. “All he does is create a crisis and can’t help us solve it.”In the statement, Mr. Trump said that the “overwhelming majority of American voters support a plan that fulfills the framework’s four pillars, which move us towards the safe, modern and lawful immigration system our people deserve.”He added that he would oppose a short-term “Band-Aid” approach to immigration that some lawmakers have been discussing, which would protect Dreamers for a few years in exchange for a small increase in border security spending — essentially kicking the issue down the road.“The American people know what’s going on,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor. “They know this president not only created the problem, but seems to be against every solution that might pass because it isn’t 100 percent of what he wants. If, at the end of the week, we are unable to find a bill that can pass — and I sincerely hope that’s not the case due to the good efforts of so many people on both sides of the aisle — the responsibility will fall entirely on the president’s shoulders and those in this body who went along with him.”Mr. Trump’s statement was a victory for conservatives in his administration, including Stephen Miller, his top domestic policy adviser, who have been pushing the president to demand an overhaul of the nation’s immigration rules in exchange for his support of a permanent solution for the Dreamers.Several senior White House advisers told reporters on Wednesday that Mr. Trump would not relent in backing his hard-line immigration principles and said Dreamers should blame Democrats if legislation did not pass.One senior adviser, who requested anonymity to discuss legislative strategy, said the president had made “dramatic concessions” by agreeing to a path to citizenship for 1.8 million young immigrants. Another made it clear that Mr. Trump would not compromise any further.That bipartisan bill would call for more border security, but would not directly finance construction of a border wall that Mr. Trump has promised. The bill would offer a way for Dreamers to become legal; the homeland security statement described it as a “mass legalization” measure.“The McCain-Coons proposal would increase illegal immigration, surge chain migration, continue catch-and-release and give a pathway to citizenship to convicted alien felons,” the statement said.The top Republicans in both the House and Senate praised the statements from the administration on Wednesday, describing them as a lift for the approach that many of their more conservative members support.“The president has made clear what principles must be addressed if we are going to make a law instead of merely making political points,” Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Wednesday morning.Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin echoed that sentiment, saying that “the president did a very good job of putting a very sincere offer on the table. And that sincere offer that he put on the table should be the framework through which we come together to find a solution.”Asked about Mr. Trump’s veto threat, Mr. Graham said: “Well, then, we won’t go very far. Then you’ll have three presidents who failed. You’ll have Obama, Bush and Trump.”Eileen Sullivan and Ron Nixon contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Journalism professors at New York University are refusing to teach at the school’s Abu Dhabi campus, after officials in the United Arab Emirates denied a faculty member a visa to teach there. That denial is a risk to academic freedom and the university’s administration has failed to speak out forcefully enough, the journalism faculty said.Mohamad Bazzi, a journalism professor, is one of at least two N.Y.U. faculty members whose visas have been rejected this year by the United Arab Emirates, which have given no reason for the denial. But Professor Bazzi, who was born in Lebanon, and Arang Keshavarzian, a professor of Middle Eastern politics whose visa application was also denied, believe it may be in part because they are Shiite Muslims, an affiliation they were asked to disclose on their applications.Abu Dhabi, the largest of the emirates, is ruled by a royal family from the Sunni Muslim tradition, and it has a troubling history when it comes to academic freedom and human rights.The university’s Gallatin School of Individualized Study joined in, urging staff in a letter to essentially boycott the campus in the United Arab Emirates until there was a resolution.On Monday, Mr. Hamilton responded, saying the university would establish a more transparent process for dealing with visa denials, and urged the faculties to rethink the boycott. “The call to refrain from engagement is misplaced, not because the issue is not serious, but because it misses the mark, punishing students and faculty at N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi over a visa decision in which they had no hand and with which they disagree,” Mr. Hamilton wrote.But the response stopped short of criticizing Emirati authorities, the kind of condemnation N.Y.U. has been swift to issue in cases in which other regimes have appeared to target individuals, Professor Keshavarzian said. Much of the academic outcry stems from what is seen as a double standard in the school’s strong public stances in recent months about the Trump administration’s decisions on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, and its travel bans.“This project was created in the name of liberal education, of global outreach, of cosmopolitanism,” Professor Keshavarzian said. “This campus is developing a reputation that there are very real limits on who can teach and study at this university and what can be potentially said on this campus.”He added, “It suggests that there is a truly dysfunctional relationship, antithetical to the principles that N.Y.U. lauds and very publicly speaks out upon.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.By comparison, since the 2013-14 academic year, just one faculty member out of 254 bound for N.Y.U.’s Shanghai campus has been denied a work visa.It is the Emirati government, not the university, that oversees who gets work visas. The construction of the campus, which opened in 2010, was wholly funded by the government of Abu Dhabi, which also pays for many students’ scholarships.When the Abu Dhabi campus was announced in 2007, N.Y.U.’s president at the time, John Sexton, pledged that it would be “built with academic quality and practices conforming to the same standards as those at N.Y.U.’s Washington Square campus, including our standards of academic freedom.”In his letter, Mr. Hamilton addressed the issue. “I understand, too, that faculty are concerned that the nature of our relationship with our Abu Dhabi partners may have led us to respond differently to the visa denials than we did to changes in U.S. immigration policy,” he wrote. He went on to suggest that the visas were not denied because the country was trying to exclude certain groups, but for reasons specific to the people who were rejected. There are faculty members and students who are Shiite, Sunni, Jewish and Christian at the campus, the president wrote.Alya El Hosseiny, an Egyptian doctoral student, was awarded a research fellowship from N.Y.U.’s Abu Dhabi institute for 2016 but was denied a visa by the government. She was active in the Arab Spring revolts and is still linked on social media to people in prison in Egypt, she said. She speculated that those factors contributed to her denial. In 2011, as waves of discontent spread into the United Arab Emirates, the government cracked down on reformers, jailing protesters and successfully maintaining its power.“I think that preventing scholars from doing their work is completely unfair, completely unjust. And it stands directly in opposition to academic freedom,” Ms. El Hosseiny, 28, said on the telephone from Cairo, where she is completing her fellowship.Go to Home Page »Supported byLetterTo the Editor:As experts on hateful speech, we know that such words matter. Tarring whole groups of people as terrible and threatening is dangerous rhetoric that is all too familiar from societies where it has been a precursor to violence.In addition, the president is now attacking legal immigrants with the sort of vitriol he previously aimed at the undocumented. He is training Americans to fear and despise other people simply because they are “them” and not “us.”Language that can inspire violent hatred is all the more disturbing in a speech to local law enforcement officers who serve across the country. We must call it out for what it is.Ms. Benesch is executive director of the Dangerous Speech Project. Ms. Heller is the director of the Center for Technology and Society, Anti-Defamation League.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSAN ANTONIO —  Udoka Azubuike has waited several years for the thrill he'll get when he looks into the Alamodome stands at the Final Four and sees his mother.Sure, Azubuike appreciates the opportunity to play for a national title with his Kansas Jayhawks. But he is the starting center for one of the nation's most prestigious college basketball programs, and his mother has never seen him play.In fact, Florence Azonuwu hasn't seen her son at all for six years."It is just going to be nice to see her again," Azubuike said. "This is what basketball is all about. Reuniting with family and getting to meet your family. That is the best part about it."Azonuwu's emergency travel visa from Nigeria to the U.S. was only approved Thursday, following some wrangling by the school, Kansas' two senators and the U.S. State Department. If she can get through three flights over 24 hours while avoiding trouble from an Air France strike in Paris, Azonuwu expects to be in San Antonio by the time Kansas takes the court against fellow top seed Villanova.Azubuike was 13 years old when he left Nigeria to play basketball in Jacksonville, Florida. While he grew into an impressive student-athlete, most of his contact with his mother and siblings has been limited to phone calls every few weeks."Can you imagine?" Kansas coach Bill Self asked. "You've never seen your son play basketball, and the first time you do it is in front of 70,000 people at this thing? I can't even imagine what's going to be going through her mind."And she won't be the only parent taking advantage of the financial help provided by the NCAA, which gives several thousand dollars in stipends to family members so they can make the trip to the Final Four.Silvio De Sousa's father is planning to travel from Angola to see his son for the first time since last summer. Ukrainian guard Svi Mykhailiuk will welcome both of his parents, who have already made the trip stateside this season for Kansas' senior night.De Sousa also left Africa to play high school basketball in the U.S., and he spent the past four years learning English and becoming a student capable of thriving at Kansas while growing into one of the nation's most coveted big men. He is looking forward to showing everything he has learned to his father, Jean-Jacques, since De Sousa was still in high school the last time they saw each other.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I didn't know everything would be so hard for me, but the past two years have been a lot better," De Sousa said. "I feel more comfortable here, and since I get to see my family almost every summer, now I'm handling things a lot better. I made the decision, and I knew it was going to be a hard decision, a tough decision. I just took it day by day, and I'm glad so far."After committing to the Jayhawks last year, De Sousa completed his final high school exams in Florida shortly before Christmas, eager to get to Kansas in time to contribute to the current team.De Sousa, who says he can't sleep for more than a couple of hours at a time, credits his active mind and ferocious attitude toward self-improvement partly to his parents' influence in their daily video phone calls. For instance, he learned his new language in a uniquely aggressive way."I talked a lot, even though I didn't know English," De Sousa said of his first year in the U.S. "I would just say something just to make sure I learn. And I love to make mistakes, because if you don't make mistakes, you won't learn. So I made sure I made mistakes so that I would learn something."De Sousa arrived in Lawrence — wearing shorts, no less — on Dec. 26, and he played for the Jayhawks on Jan. 13. He has matured into a key reserve for the Jayhawks in a remarkably short time, backing up Azubuike and contributing on both ends of the court."He's grown a lot," said Marcus Garrett, De Sousa's fellow Kansas freshman. "It's hard when you're coming in and you have to learn 40 plays in a week. He was thrown right into the fire. He was playing quick, like two weeks after he got here. He came in working hard. He didn't come in with a lazy mindset, and when you're trying to learn, you can pick things up."___More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-eventsGo to Home Page »The deal, which had been widely expected, would expand the international reach of Visa, the world’s biggest payment network, and help it compete with MasterCard, whose European operations have already been integrated. The sale would also add to the coffers of several European banks.The combined company would have annual revenue of $15.5 billion and about 2.9 billion credit and debit cards issued by Visa member banks, the company said. About 42 percent of the payments it processes would come from North America, and about 28 percent from Europe.The two companies separated in 2007, shortly before Visa’s $18 billion initial public offering.Under the terms of the deal, Visa would pay €16.5 billion upfront in cash and convertible shares, and as much as an additional €4.7 billion on the fourth anniversary of the closing of the transaction.“This transaction is beneficial for financial institutions, acquirers, merchants, cardholders and other partners, as well as for our employees and shareholders,” he added.Visa Europe is owned and operated by an association of banks and other payment service providers in Europe. At the end of its 2015 fiscal year, the company’s member banks had issued more than 500 million Visa cards in Europe. It said it processes more than 18 billion transactions a year, worth more than €1.5 trillion.Under the terms of the deal, Visa Europe’s owners would receive €11.5 billion in cash, plus convertible shares worth €5 billion in an upfront payment.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The additional payment of up to €4.7 billion would be based on the performance of the business.Several European lenders on Monday gave investors a preview of what they expected from the sale.The deal has been approved by both the Visa and Visa Europe boards. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close in Visa’s third quarter next year.“Integrating into one global business will ensure we have the financial strength and operational scale necessary to accelerate the next generation of payments throughout Europe,” Nicolas Huss, the Visa Europe chief executive, said in the news release on Monday.Revenue increased 11 percent to $3.57 billion in the period, from $3.23 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2014.Go to Home Page »Of those companies that did cut ties, many said they did it in response to consumer complaints.In a statement on Feb. 24, the N.R.A. said the companies, “in a shameful display of political and civic cowardice,” were trying to punish its law-abiding members who had nothing to do with the Parkland shooting.The statement added: “In time, these brands will be replaced by others who recognize that patriotism and determined commitment to Constitutional freedoms are characteristics of a marketplace they very much want to serve.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misidentified an organization that said it would not renew its discount with the N.R.A. It is Starkey Hearing Technologies, not Starkey Hearing Foundation.Go to Home Page »A Flatiron district artificial intelligence start-up was recently looking to expand, adding new engineers who happened to know a niche computer language.The people it hired hail from Morocco, Belarus, France, Georgia and Canada. But they are not working in New York. They are in Montreal, where immigration policies make it possible to get work permits within two weeks, and the Canadian tech industry is aggressively trying to woo foreign companies.While much attention has been paid to President Trump’s policies cracking down on illegal immigration, the administration has also moved to restrict legal immigration, especially in the tech industry, which draws many workers from abroad. In April, Mr. Trump introduced an executive order, Buy American and Hire American, which included requests to reform a visa program known as H-1B as a way to benefit American workers.The program awards 85,000 temporary visas annually to highly skilled foreign workers in what are deemed “specialty” occupations through a lottery. Between application and legal fees, the process of applying for one H-1B visa can cost a company up to $6,000, lawyers say, and can take months; it is also as uncertain as roulette, with hundreds of thousands of applicants for the spots.Last week, the Department of Homeland Security published a set of proposed rule changes that would make the visas even harder to qualify for, to ensure that only “the best and brightest” foreign workers were selected. It also hoped to eliminate a work permit for spouses of some of these visa holders.In 2017, the organization conducted eight international recruiting missions, in London, Paris, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Its directors have made several informal visits to New York, where it came this month to woo a video game company.Last year, trueEx’s chief executive and president, Karen O’Connor, was looking at options to expand the company’s computer engineer group. A consortium related to Montreal International invited her to Canada for a visit that made her feel like a foreign dignitary, she said. There was the elegant lunch, the precisely coordinated meetings with potential business partners and a visit to the Montreal Stock Exchange.Ms. O’Connor said the 50-person company could save more than $1 million in wages if it hired engineers based in Montreal. In part, that was because the cost of living was far less compared with New York and because the company could qualify for certain tax benefits.But after Mr. Trump was elected, trueEx hesitated, to gauge the climate; now, it is again considering expanding north of the border in 2018, Ms. O’Connor said, in part because it got a spot site visit from the Department of Homeland Security this summer to verify employment records for its H-1B visa holders. They were in order, but the company’s executives found the process nerve-racking.“My advice to other companies would be: Hold on for dear life, but explore other options,” Mr. Hirani said.But John Miano, a lawyer who represents American workers who say that they have lost jobs unfairly to low-skilled H-1B visa holders, thought it was “posturing” for companies to say they are moving north of the border to find the best talent. “The problem is, you got to go to Canada,” Mr. Miano said. “The reality is, the place to do business is still the United States.”Datalogue’s expansion to Montreal, Mr. Delisle’s hometown, evolved swiftly. He and a partner founded Datalogue in 2016 at Cornell Tech in Manhattan and were lucky when a tech mogul, Charles E. Phillips Jr., the chief executive of Infor, gave him two desks on the fifth floor of Infor’s elegantly restored Flatiron headquarters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.By spring 2017, Datalogue had grown to five employees and had raised $1.5 million in seed funding. But to bring in more engineers would have cost thousands of dollars in visa fees, Mr. Delisle said, and even then, the process would not be guaranteed. Canada has a burgeoning artificial intelligence sector, and the company opened its Montreal office in April in the trendy Mile End neighborhood; it raised another $1.5 million in seed funding by November.Still, Mr. Delisle said that his company has better access to customers in New York, and for that reason he has kept seven employees there for sales and marketing.While tech is still thriving in New York, where it is the fastest-growing industry in the city, losing offices or whole companies to Canada could be a concern, said Kevin Ryan, an entrepreneur who had founded a half-dozen start-ups. The multiplier effect of the start-up world is a powerful one.“When someone decides not to come here to join a start-up, and they go to Toronto, some of them may break off and start a new company across the street,” he said. “The wider impact will be felt, literally, for decades.”Mr. Delisle agreed. “I’m not necessarily scared for New York; there’s phenomenal programs there,” he said. “I am more scared for the broader policies being applied right now.”According to the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group, immigration has always been central to the economy of New York. Forty-eight percent of the city’s small-business owners are immigrants, and 45 percent of the work force in the city is foreign-born.“The No. 1 priority of business today is where they can get the talent they need from the global talent pool,” said Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the group. “There’s not much a locality can do to incentivize, but we can try to keep the global pipeline open.”Stimulating the city economy was the impetus for New York City’s Economic Development Corporation to create a program called International Innovators Initiative, or IN2NYC. The idea was to provide H-1B visas that were exempt from the government-imposed cap because entrepreneurs would work in partnership with city universities.One company that was initially rejected has appealed — and set up shop in Canada while it is waiting for a decision.Go to Home Page »Trump Unleashes Immigration Tirade at Tax EventTrump Speaks About Stormy Daniels ScandalFootage Released of Man Shot by Police in BrooklynYouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranTrump: Military Will Guard Mexico BorderAnn Coulter Says President Trump Is ‘Failing’The Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpHow Dr. King Changed a Sanitation Worker’s LifeCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.WASHINGTON — In his first State of the Union address Tuesday night, President Trump is expected to tick off accomplishments from his first year in office and present his policy vision going forward — and The New York Times will fact-check him as he speaks.Mr. Trump is likely to boast about a roaring American economy and healthy job growth, though his claims should be viewed in context.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump has also misrepresented the tax cut’s effect on the decisions of American businesses.Mr. Trump often talks up his deal-making prowess. But he has taken credit for agreements that were drawn up before he was involved or relies on fuzzy math to promote the most impressive dollar figure possible.Mr. Trump has also made inaccurate statements about international deals he dislikes.In pushing Congress to approve a new immigration policy, Mr. Trump has made several erroneous statements.See More »Go to Home Page »Alberto M. Carvalho, who rose from undocumented immigrant and day laborer to superintendent of the Miami-Dade County Public Schools, has found a bigger stage: He will become the next New York City schools chancellor, Mayor Bill de Blasio’s office announced on Wednesday.Mr. Carvalho, 53, has led Miami-Dade, the nation’s fourth-largest district, for nearly a decade and has a remarkably successful record. The high school graduation rate has increased to 80.7 percent in 2016-17 from 60.5 percent in 2007-8. In 2014, Mr. Carvalho was named the National Superintendent of the Year. In 2012, the district won the Broad Prize for Urban Education, which recognizes districts that have shown major gains in student achievement.“Alberto Carvalho is a world-class educator with an unmatched track record of success,” Mr. de Blasio said in a statement on Wednesday evening. “I am very confident that our extensive, national search has found New York City the best person to lead the nation’s largest school system into the future.”Mr. Carvalho has pushed a different agenda than Ms. Fariña’s, expanding the number of charter, magnet and other choice schools and programs, and promoting the use of technology in the classroom. He started a school called iPreparatory Academy where students work at their own pace, partly led by teachers and partly using online curriculum. Mr. de Blasio is a critic of charter schools; Ms. Fariña has not pursued opening new schools or programs, and technology has not played a large part in her plans.Although test scores and graduation rates in New York City have steadily improved in recent years, the school system faces major challenges, including persistent racial and economic achievement gaps and segregation.Shortly before Mr. de Blasio made his announcement on Wednesday, the Miami-Dade school board called an emergency meeting for Thursday morning “to discuss the stability of the executive management leadership.”After Mr. de Blasio made his statement, a spokeswoman for Mr. Carvalho, Daisy Gonzalez-Diego, said only that he had been offered the job but had not accepted and would not comment until after he had met with the board.In an unusual move, rather than scheduling a public announcement of the chancellor pick, the mayor’s office said that Mr. de Blasio had no scheduled events on Thursday.Mr. de Blasio’s choice was first reported by Politico.City Hall was aware of the allegations, said the mayor’s press secretary, Eric Phillips.Mr. Carvalho’s appointment drew praise on Wednesday from diverse segments of the education universe.Shael Polakow-Suransky, the president of Bank Street College of Education and a former senior deputy chancellor of the city’s education department under Mr. Bloomberg, described Mr. Carvalho as an “inspired choice,” saying that he “combines a strong commitment to equity, savvy political instincts and a willingness to try innovative approaches that deeply engage students in their own learning.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, said that, despite leadership at the state government level in Florida that she described as “overtly hostile to public education,” Mr. Carvalho “has had an open door towards educators and toward partnership and teamwork and has been able to move the Miami-Dade system because of that.”Miami-Dade serves roughly 345,000 students, over 90 percent of whom are Hispanic or black and more than 70 percent of whom qualify for free or reduced-price lunch. In New York, nearly 70 percent of students are Hispanic or black, and a similar percentage qualify for the lunch benefits.Mr. Carvalho earns a yearly salary of $352,874 in Miami compared to Ms. Fariña’s $234,569. Mr. Phillips said Mr. Carvalho will be paid $353,000, to match his Miami salary.Mr. Carvalho has spent his entire career in the Miami-Dade school system, starting as a teacher at Miami Jackson Senior High, where he taught physics, chemistry and calculus. He went on to become an assistant principal, a lobbyist for the district, and an associate superintendent. He took over the district from Rudy Crew, himself a former New York City schools chancellor.He has been an outspoken critic of President Trump’s immigration policies and defender of undocumented immigrants.The mayor’s press secretary, Mr. Phillips, said that Ms. Fariña would leave in the next month but that Mr. Carvalho did not have an official start date yet. Mr. Phillips said that the mayor and Mr. Carvalho met twice, once in January and once in February. Both meetings were at Gracie Mansion, including one that included dinner.Mr. de Blasio’s wife, Chirlane McCray, was also involved in the decision, Mr. Phillips said. Ms. McCray has played a role in many of Mr. de Blasio’s important hiring choices and recently has spoken along with the mayor at the news conferences to announce them.Elizabeth A. Harris contributed reporting and Doris Burke contributed researchGo to Home Page »BANGKOK — A Belarusian escort with close ties to a powerful Russian oligarch said from behind bars in Bangkok on Monday that she had more than 16 hours of audio recordings that could help shed light on Russian meddling in United States elections.Ms. Vashukevich, who described herself as close to the Russian aluminum tycoon Oleg V. Deripaska, said that audio recordings she made in August 2016 included discussions he had about the United States presidential election with people she declined to identify.Mr. Deripaska, a billionaire with close ties to Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, also has business ties to Paul J. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman. Mr. Manafort is under investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel looking into the campaign’s connections to Russia.“If America gives me protection, I will tell everything I know,” Ms. Vashukevich said on Monday. “I am afraid to go back to Russia. Some strange things can happen.”Ms. Vashukevich and Alexander Kirillov, the organizer of the sex seminar, spoke to three reporters while standing behind bars and a mesh screen during visiting hours at the Immigration Detention Center in Bangkok. Immigration officials stopped the interviews midway and told the reporters to leave the facility.Ms. Vashukevich, wearing a bright green T-shirt with the word “detainee” in Thai, is a long way from the days she spent sailing on a yacht with Mr. Deripaska and his friends, including Sergei E. Prikhodko, a deputy prime minister.According to her version of events, she was working for a modeling agency when she and several other models were sent to spend time on Mr. Deripaska’s yacht. She later posted photographs and videos on social media showing Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Prikhodko together on the yacht.Mr. Navalny charged in his video that Mr. Deripaska’s yacht trip was an attempt to bribe Mr. Prikhodko, and that Ms. Vashukevich was one of “several” prostitutes aboard the vessel. In the video, the tycoon and Mr. Prikhodko can be heard discussing Russian-American relations. The video also highlights a book Ms. Vashukevich wrote titled “Who Wants to Seduce a Billionaire.”Russia has tried to block Mr. Navalny’s video, which had nearly 6.4 million views on YouTube as of Monday. A spokesman for Mr. Deripaska has said the allegations of bribery and prostitutes on the yacht were a “hot story that appears far from being the truth.”In the interview at the immigration center on Monday, Ms. Vashukevich said that she had often recorded conversations between Mr. Deripaska and his associates, and that she had 16 to 18 hours of recordings, including conversations about the United States presidential election.“They were discussing elections,” she said. “Deripaska had a plan about elections.”But, she added, “I can’t tell you everything.”Some of the conversations were with three people who spoke English fluently and who she thought were Americans, she said.Get the latest on the special counsel investigation — and other major news — delivered to your email inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It is not only about me,” she said. “It concerns a lot of people in America and other countries.”Ms. Vashukevich and Mr. Kirillov, who also goes by the name Alex Lesley, are prominent on social media and are considered by some to be publicity seekers.Ms. Vashukevich took part in a small protest in Moscow last year defending Harvey Weinstein after he faced numerous accusations of sexual abuse. Standing mostly naked near the American Embassy, she and four other women held signs with slogans such as “Hands Off Harvey” and “Harvey Weinstein Welcome to Russia.”Ms. Vashukevich said she arrived in Thailand on Feb. 16, and that she was only an observer at the sex seminar but did not work at the event.Several attendees said that no sex had been involved, and that the multiday training had focused on improving communication and on perfecting the art of seduction.Those who are taken to the immigration detention center are often on the verge of being deported. But an immigration official said that Ms. Vashukevich and five others taken to the center still faced criminal charges for their part in the seminar. They will be sent back to Pattaya for court proceedings.Ms. Vashukevich described being held in a crowded cell with more than 100 women and only three toilets. She said a Thai official had asked her to sign a paper saying that she believed she would be safe in Russia, but that she had refused.In general, people seeking asylum must apply in the country where they hope to take refuge.A spokeswoman for the American Embassy in Bangkok said she was aware of the arrests but declined to discuss the case or any asylum request.Mr. Kirillov said that he believed publicity would help protect them. “I think the press makes us a little bit safer because if they killed us in the prison, everyone would know,” he said.Ryn Jirenuwat contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »Supported byShortly after captaining Canada’s men’s hockey team to a bronze medal and attending the closing ceremony at the Winter Olympics in South Korea, Chris Kelly boarded a 12-hour flight to Toronto.By the time he was back home in Ottawa, his new N.H.L. contract with the Anaheim Ducks was completed. After spending a day doing laundry, catching up with his wife and three daughters, and waiting for his visa to be processed, he flew to Anaheim. Two days later, Kelly, 37, played in his first N.H.L. game in almost a year.His whirlwind season started with a failed tryout with the Edmonton Oilers. Kelly joined the minor league affiliate of the Ottawa Senators and contemplated retirement before his Olympic opportunity emerged.When the N.H.L. decided not to participate in the Olympics, it provided a unique opportunity for a variety of less-heralded players from around the globe. The Olympics, in turn, provided a path to the N.H.L. for some players.Like Kelly, the American Brian Gionta is a longtime N.H.L. veteran who captained his national team in Pyeongchang after failing to secure a pro contract at the start of the 2017-18 season. Also like Kelly, Gionta parlayed his Olympic experience into an N.H.L. contract, signing with the Boston Bruins in the days after the United States’ quarterfinal loss to the Czech Republic. He skipped the closing ceremony and reported to the Bruins shortly thereafter.Last Sunday, Boston signed Gionta’s Olympic teammate Ryan Donato, its second-round draft pick in 2014, after he completed his third season at Harvard. Donato, 21, was the leading scorer for the Americans with five goals, and had two goals and two assists in his first three games with the Bruins.Gionta, 39, was disappointed in the Americans’ finish in South Korea, but now finds himself on the second-best team in the N.H.L.’s Eastern Conference with the playoffs about three weeks away. He had two goals and four assists in his first 12 games.“It was a little bit of a whirlwind at first, obviously,” Gionta said. “Coming back from South Korea and heading off to Boston right away. It’s something that I knew was a possibility. So I was somewhat prepared for it. I’ve enjoyed it. It’s been a perfect fit. I love the city. I love the team. The guys have been great. They’ve really made things pretty easy.”Gionta and Kelly’s N.H.L. contracts were the exception. Many players leaving Pyeongchang had contractual commitments with European clubs, American universities or North American minor league teams after participating in the Olympic hockey tournament.Most of the players making up the Russian squad barely changed rosters after winning gold in overtime against Germany on Feb. 25. Of the 25 players on the gold medal team, 15 play for SKA St. Petersburg of the Kontinental Hockey League while another eight play for CSKA Moscow, also of the K.H.L. SKA and CSKA finished first and second in the regular season, swept their first-round playoff series, and appear likely to meet in the conference finals.The majority of American and Canadian players dispersed to Europe and North America, but the national team compatriots have still had ample opportunity to reminisce about their experiences in Pyeongchang. Both teams participated in a group chat using WhatsApp in the weeks leading up to the Olympics. Those chats remain active weeks after the closing ceremony.“Guys still pipe in there every once in a while, whether it’s for jokes or videos or memories that we had when we were away,” said the Canadian defenseman Cody Goloubef, who had his American Hockey League contract with the Stockton Heat upgraded to a two-way contract with the Calgary Flames after the Games. “It always puts a smile on my face to see that chat light up.”He added: “There’s so much experience and knowledge and games played and leagues played in in that group. It’s a good resource.”Gionta is once again teammates with Donato, but he expects to remain in touch with other players from the American roster for years to come.“It’s one of those experiences when you share it together, you’ll have that for the rest of your life,” Gionta said.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWhat exactly do these visa suspensions mean for travelers from the United States who may be interested in visiting Turkey or if they already have a trip planned to the country?Here, answers to questions about travel to turkey.If I live in the United States, can I still visit Turkey?It depends, said Aydan Karamanoglu, a spokesman for the Turkish Embassy in Washington D.C. “Right now, it is impossible for U.S. residents to come to Turkey if they need a visa and are applying for it in person because it is not possible to apply for a visa in person,” he said.Those who already have Turkish visas, however, can still visit Turkey, he said.Can I visit Turkey if I am a citizen of the United States and live abroad?It’s possible but not guaranteed. You will need to apply for a visa and can do so by visiting your local Turkish embassy or consulate, Mr. Karamanoglu said.I have a trip to Turkey booked, and now I’m ineligible to apply for the Turkish visa I need to take that trip. What should I do?You may be able to get a refund.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Why did the United States and Turkey suddenly suspend visitor visas between the two countries?On Sunday, the U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey’s capital, announced that it was suspending nonimmigrant visa services in Turkey. The move meant that Turkish citizens would no longer be allowed to apply for a visa in Turkey to visit the United States. However, they can still apply for one at a United States embassy or consulate in another country.Later that day, Turkey suspended its nonimmigrant visa services in the United States. “We have applied this measure because we have been subject to the same measure from the U.S.,” Mr. Karamanoğlu said.How long are the visa suspensions expected to last?In his statement, Mr. Bass said that he hopes that the visa suspension won’t last long. “The duration will be a function of ongoing discussions between our two governments about the reasons for the detention of our local staff members and the Turkish Government’s commitment to protecting our facilities and our personnel here in Turkey,” he said.Mr. Karamanoglu said that the duration of Turkey’s visa suspension depends on the United States. “If the U.S. government revokes its measure, we will revoke ours,” he said.Is it safe to visit Turkey?Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — Tashfeen Malik, who with her husband carried out the massacre in San Bernardino, Calif., passed three background checks by American immigration officials as she moved to the United States from Pakistan. None uncovered what Ms. Malik had said online about her views on violent jihad.She said she supported it. And she said she wanted to be a part of it.American law enforcement officials said they recently discovered those old — and previously unreported — communications as they pieced together the lives of Ms. Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, trying to understand how they pulled off the deadliest terrorist attack on American soil since Sept. 11, 2001.Had the authorities found the messages years ago, they might have kept her out of the country. But their recent discovery exposed a significant — and perhaps inevitable — shortcoming in how foreigners are screened when they enter the United States, particularly as people everywhere talk more and disclose more about themselves online. Despite a tremendous electronic intelligence-gathering apparatus that captures phone calls and emails from around the world, it remains impossible to conduct an exhaustive investigation for each of the tens of millions of people who are cleared each year to come to this country to work, visit or live.Federal officials said they had discovered private conversations about jihad between Ms. Malik and Mr. Farook on an online messaging platform, as well as emails and communications on a dating site, but not on traditional social media sites such as Facebook. But even those sites, where conversations can be public or semipublic, pose a logistical hurdle for immigration screeners, who do not routinely conduct social media searches during the visa process.In the aftermath of terrorist attacks in San Bernardino and Paris, this screening process has been singled out as a major vulnerability in the nation’s defense against terrorism. Lawmakers from both parties have endorsed making it harder for people to enter the United States if they have recently been in Iraq or Syria. Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, has said there should be a temporary ban on Muslims’ entering the country.While President Obama has cautioned against “a betrayal of our values” in the way the United States responds to threats, he has ordered a review of the K-1 visa program, which allows foreigners like Ms. Malik to move to the United States to marry Americans, putting them on a pathway to permanent residence and, ultimately, citizenship.The Obama administration is trying to determine whether those background checks can be expanded without causing major delays in the popular program. In an attempt to ensure they did not miss threats from men and women who entered the country the same way Ms. Malik did, immigration officials are also reviewing all of about 90,000 K-1 visas issued in the past two years and are considering a moratorium on new ones while they determine whether changes should be made.“Somebody entered the United States through the K-1 visa program and proceeded to carry out an act of terrorism on American soil,” the White House spokesman, Josh Earnest, said on Thursday. “That program is at a minimum worth a very close look.”In an era when technology has given intelligence agencies seemingly limitless ability to collect information on people, it may seem surprising that anyone’s Facebook or Twitter post could go unnoticed in a background screening. But the screenings are an example of the trade-offs that security officials make as they try to mitigate the threat of terrorism while keeping borders open for business and travel.“We run people against watch lists and that’s how we decided if they get extra screening,” said C. Stewart Verdery Jr., a senior Homeland Security official during George W. Bush’s administration. “In cases where those lists don’t hit, there’s nothing that distinguishes them from people we would love to welcome to this country.”Ms. Malik faced three extensive national security and criminal background screenings. First, Homeland Security officials checked her name against American law enforcement and national security databases. Then, her visa application went to the State Department, which checked her fingerprints against other databases. Finally, after coming to the United States and formally marrying Mr. Farook here, she applied for her green card and received another round of criminal and security checks.Ms. Malik also had two in-person interviews, federal officials said, the first by a consular officer in Pakistan, and the second by an immigration officer in the United States when she applied for her green card.Officials have discovered a potential link between the attackers and Islamic extremism.Meanwhile, a debate is underway at United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that approves visas and green cards, over whether officers conducting interviews should be allowed to routinely use material gathered from social media for interviews where they assess whether foreigners are credible or pose any security risk. With that issue unresolved, the agency has not regularly been using social media references, federal officials said.As part of their investigation into the electronic trail of Ms. Malik and Mr. Farook, investigators are searching for devices, including a computer hard drive that appeared to be missing from their home, and cellphones they might have abandoned.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Saturday, a team of divers from the F.B.I. and the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department continued their search for those devices in Seccombe Lake in a park about two miles from the site of the Dec. 2 attack. The divers pulled items from the murky waters of the lake, which they have been scouring since Thursday. However, officials would not specify what was found or if it was relevant to the investigation. They cautioned that such searches, particularly one in a bustling public park, tend to dredge up debris from many sources, and that investigators still have to determine the value of what was found.Since its inception in 2002, the Department of Homeland Security has been trying to find the right balance between security and ease of movement — a balance that equates to billions of dollars in trade and tourism each year.“Compared to where we were 15 years ago, we’ve moved the needle very far to the right on security,” Mr. Verdery said.Still, he said, officials have to decide who gets extra scrutiny. Today the government focuses its attention on people in certain fields or from certain countries — foreign scientists, for instance, or young men from the Middle East. As a woman, Ms. Malik likely raised less suspicion, Mr. Verdery said.From 2007 to 2012, she lived in a university hostel and then with her mother and sister Fehda at a family home in Multan, Pakistan. While there, Ms. Malik studied to be a pharmacist, and she took extra classes at the local branch of a women-only institute that teaches a strict literalist interpretation of the Quran, although it does not advocate violent jihad.In a brief telephone interview on Saturday, the sister, Fehda Malik, said Tashfeen Malik was not an extremist, and she rejected the allegations against her sister.“I am the one who spent most of the time with my sister,” she said. “No one knows her more than me. She had no contact with any militant organization or person, male or female.”She said her sister was religious, studied the Quran and prayed five times a day. “She knew what was right and what was wrong,” Fehda Malik said. She added that the family was “very worried and tense,” before hanging up the phone.On social media, Fehda Malik has made provocative comments of her own. In 2011, on the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, she posted a remark on Facebook beside a photo of a plane crashing into the World Trade Center that could be interpreted as anti-American.Social media comments, by themselves, however, are not always definitive evidence. In Pakistan — as in the United States — there is no shortage of crass and inflammatory language. And it is often difficult to distinguish Islamist sentiments and those driven by political hostility toward the United States. At the time Fehda Malik’s comment was posted, anti-American sentiment in Pakistan was particularly high; four months earlier, American commandos had secretly entered Pakistan and killed Osama bin Laden.The original version of this article, based on accounts from law enforcement officials, reported that Tashfeen Malik had “talked openly on social media” about her support for violent jihad.On Wednesday, however, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said that online communications about jihad by Ms. Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, involved “direct, private messages.” His remarks indicated that the comments about jihad were not made in widely accessible social media posts.Matt Apuzzo and Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Julia Preston from New York. Declan Walsh contributed reporting from Cairo, Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan, and Rick Rojas from San Bernardino, Calif.Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorAs one might expect, the credit card companies use their power to block competition. American Express did this by imposing conditions on retailers that accept Amex cards. Retailers were told they could not ask their own customers to use, say, a Discover card, over an American Express card, even if Discover would be a cheaper option. Discover could provide a merchant like The Home Depot better terms than American Express — but, because of American Express’s restrictions, The Home Depot had no way of reflecting Discover’s lower rates to cardholders, thereby keeping Discover’s competitive advantage from translating into greater market share. This meant card networks had no reason to compete when serving merchants, keeping prices high.The district court ruled that American Express’s “anti-steering” provisions stifled price competition and violated the antitrust laws (Mastercard and Visa settled with the government before trial). But when American Express appealed, the Second Circuit reversed, relying on a new concept to create a special set of rules. The concept is that players in “two-sided” markets are unique because they serve different sets of customers in distinct but related markets, effectively facilitating transactions. American Express, for example, charges both merchants who accept its cards and consumers who use them. Using this concept, the Second Circuit held that the government would have to show that any price increases for merchants also harmed cardholders, or at least didn’t benefit them. In effect, the court introduced a dramatically new rule, making it much more difficult to win important antitrust cases and to stop anticompetitive behavior.The case is now at the Supreme Court. If affirmed, the Second Circuit decision would create de facto antitrust immunity for the most powerful companies in the economy. Since internet technologies have enabled the growth of platform companies that serve multiple groups of users, firms like Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Uber are set to be prime beneficiaries of the Second Circuit’s warped analysis. Amazon, for example, could claim status as a two-sided platform because it connects buyers and sellers of goods; Google because it facilitates a market between advertisers and search users. (An industry trade group representing the tech platforms filed an amicus brief in support of American Express.) Indeed, the reason that the tech giants are lining up behind the Second Circuit’s approach is that — if ratified — it would make it vastly more difficult to use antitrust laws against them.The fact that the tech platforms could effectively be shielded from antitrust is troubling because, in several respects, these firms enjoy dominant market positions that makes antitrust scrutiny of their conduct especially important. By virtue of providing increasingly critical services, tech giants wield immense leverage over the sellers and buyers that rely on their platforms. This power is ripe for abuse. If the Supreme Court ratifies the Second Circuit’s approach, platforms will be able to engage in anticompetitive activity with one set of users, so long as they can plausibly claim that harmful conduct enabled them to benefit another group. Say, for example, that Uber prohibited its drivers from also serving rivals like Lyft, suppressing driver income. Under the current approach, these exclusive agreements would likely violate antitrust law. But under the Second Circuit’s analysis, the case would go nowhere unless plaintiffs could show that this practice also harmed riders.Unless the Supreme Court rejects the Second Circuit’s approach, it will risk immunizing dominant platforms from effective antitrust review, at the very moment when they most need it.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSLOS ANGELES — They sold their homes and possessions, quit their jobs, and left their country — they thought for good. The Iranians, mainly members of their nation’s Christian minorities, were bound for a new life in America after what should have been a brief sojourn in Austria for visa processing.But more than a year later, some 100 of them remain stranded in Vienna, their savings drained, their lives in limbo and the promise of America dead.Even as the Trump administration continued to pledge help to religious minorities in the Middle East, many of whom face persecution, the United States denied their applications for refugee status in recent weeks.“It’s unexplainable,” said H. Avakian, 35, an ethnic Armenian Christian who arrived in Austria from Iran 15 months ago and asked that his first name be withheld out of fear for his safety. “Suddenly they said, ‘Now you can’t come.’ We don’t know why.”Mr. Avakian, who hoped to join his brother, Andre, in Los Angeles, said in a phone interview that he and other refugees were running out of money and descending into depression. “Most of us cannot go back to Iran; we’re in complete despair,” he said.Returning to Iran after an attempt to move to the United States would endanger their lives, he and other applicants said, because the government would regard them as enemies of the state.“We are afraid they will give us a sentence,” Mr. Avakian said. “They could put us in jail.”The Iranians applied to resettle in the United States under guidelines set by a 1989 law known as the Lautenberg Amendment, which offers safe haven to persecuted religious minorities. In the group are ethnic Armenian and Assyrian Christians, Mandeans, and Zoroastrians, most of whom have relatives in the United States who sponsored them.“We have been inundated with calls from concerned family,” said Martin Zogg, executive director of the International Rescue Committee’s office in Los Angeles, home to the largest Armenian community in the country.The denials have drawn rebukes from religious leaders, human rights groups and lawmakers from both parties, who charge the United States with failing to live up to its promises and who say the applicants risk arrest and torture if they return home.Refugee arrivals have slowed to a trickle since President Trump, who took office vowing to overhaul immigration, cut the number of people that the United States agreed to admit. But Mr. Trump also promised to protect religious minorities, particularly Christians, and his administration has condemned Iran’s treatment of them.Enacted in 1989 to enable Jews and Christian minorities from the former Soviet Union to settle in the United States as refugees, the Lautenberg Amendment was expanded in 2003 to include Iranian religious minorities. Austria agreed to serve as a transit point. The applicants cannot work, attend school or receive government benefits while they wait for the United States to process their cases.Among those denied visas in recent weeks are several elderly and disabled people. As the wait dragged on, many have had to rely on the Roman Catholic Church for lodging and medical treatment, and at least one couple is living in the guest room of the archbishop of Vienna, Cardinal Christoph Schönborn.“Some of the Iranians have already spent all the money they came with,” said Michael Prüller, the spokesman for the Archdiocese of Vienna. “Others see their means dwindle by the day.”Iran’s Constitution proclaims Shiite Islam the official state religion. While it formally recognizes Christians, Jews and Zoroastrians as protected minorities, the government engages in “systematic, ongoing and egregious violations of religious freedom, including prolonged detention, torture and executions based primarily or entirely upon the religion of the accused,” according to the 2017 report of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, which makes policy recommendations to the president and to Congress.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Suhaib Nashi, president of the Mandaean Society of America, said he feared for several Mandean families in the Vienna group. Like the Baha’i, Mandeans, who follow the teachings of John the Baptist, lack even the nominal protections of the Iranian Constitution and are thus particularly vulnerable to persecution and pressure to convert to Islam.Among the Mandeans marooned in Vienna are three relatives of Peiman Khamisi of Batavia, Ill., who arrived through the Lautenberg Amendment nine years ago. In Iran, his relatives pretended to be Muslim to avoid harassment, performed religious rites in secret and were denied access to higher education, he said.In late January, Representatives Randy Hultgren, Republican of Illinois, and James McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, chairmen of the House human rights commission, urged Vice President Mike Pence to expedite approvals for the Iranians.After the denials, they called on the Department of Homeland Security to provide an explanation. “These Iranians are members of religious minorities fleeing a regime that has brutally oppressed their communities since 1979,” they said in a statement. “This being the case, they should be presumed eligible for admittance to the United States as refugees under the Lautenberg Amendment.”According to the amendment, the government must justify a denial “to the maximum extent feasible.”But no reason was given, at least not to those stranded in Austria, or to their relatives in the United States. One family was conditionally approved for refugee status in a March 2017 eligibility letter reviewed by The New York Times. Last month, they were given an ineligibility notice that said their application “has been denied as a matter of discretion.”A spokesman for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Homeland Security agency that adjudicates the cases, declined to explain why the family was denied, saying only that “these individuals were subject to the same rigorous process for resettlement as all refugees.”Applicants are vetted before they apply for an Austrian transit visa. Once in Vienna, they continue the screening process, pass interviews with Homeland Security and undergo medical exams. Typically, it takes a few months to complete the process, and the approval rate is close to 100 percent.A State Department spokeswoman said in an email that changes to the United States refugee admissions program in 2016 resulted in “a greater number of denials in the Vienna refugee program.” She did not elaborate, but other government officials said that the changes entailed enhanced vetting.The rejections, she said, were unrelated to Mr. Trump’s executive orders barring people from several majority-Muslim countries, including Iran, from entering the country. She added that the United States, Austria and others were working together to find alternatives for the group.Since 2003, about 30,000 Iranians have settled in the United States thanks to the Lautenberg program. In the fiscal year that ended in September, 1,275 Iranians were admitted, compared with 2,323 the previous year. Another 4,500 still in Iran have registered for the program.Refugee resettlement officials said that evangelical Christians, who make up more than 90 percent of the Lautenberg pool and hail mainly from Ukraine, continue to arrive as usual.Some of the Iranians have begun to file appeals with the help of the International Refugee Assistance Project, a nonprofit in New York.Goharek Garmemasihi, an ethnic Armenian Christian in Los Angeles, said that she had sponsored her brother, sister-in-law, niece and nephew. Within months of arriving in Vienna last year, the parents and their teenage daughter were approved. American authorities informed them that their son, then 22, was still under review. “They decided to wait together,” Ms. Garmemasihi said.Fourteen months passed without any word.In September, officials persuaded the parents and daughter to leave for the United States, assuring them that their son, a 23-year-old university student, would follow soon, according to Ms. Garmemasihi and her nephew, who spoke from Vienna on the condition that he remain unnamed out of fear for his safety.About 10 days ago, he was notified of the denial. “It was the worst day of my life,” he said through tears.He said an appeal, which he just filed, was his last hope.“I wish this nightmare ends, that I can open my eyes and see my family,” he said. “I just want to be with them again. I don’t care what it takes.”See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byEditorialThis past week was meant to be dedicated to a rare open debate on immigration in the Senate, and once again, centrist Democrats and Republicans proposed a pair of similar and reasonable compromises on what has arguably become the most charged issue of the day. Alas, they both fell before the anti-immigration furor of the Trump administration. But then President Trump’s own hard-line immigration bill fell much harder, leaving the fate of the so-called Dreamers in limbo.Now that the senators have witnessed a decisive bipartisan rejection of Mr. Trump’s get-tough approach, they might see their way to reconsider a more modest measure that takes the Dreamers out of limbo and enhances security. A deal, in other words, that actually does something about the system beyond cruelly using immigrants as pawns in political games and forever blaming the other side.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byDear America: Come on, you can’t be serious.The ongoing saga over a president, a porn star and a payoff is so lewd and tawdry that it can’t simply be added to the ever-expanding list of horrible misbehaviors of a womanizing misogynist.It’s not even the infidelity that most bothers me. I view that as an issue between spouses and with the other person involved. I contend that we on the outside never really know what understandings may exist in a marriage, unless the two parties within reveal it.In this case, Melania knew exactly the kind of man she was getting.Trump is on a date with another woman that night. He is also in the process of divorcing Marla Maples, his second wife, with whom he had had an affair while still married to his first wife, Ivana Trump.According to GQ, “He sent his companion to the bathroom so he could have a few minutes to chat up the model he’d noticed. But Melania knew of Trump’s reputation — which was immediately confirmed by the fact that he had come to the party with a date and was now asking for her number.”Six months after the tape is recorded, on March 20, 2006, Mr. and Mrs. Trump’s son Barron is born. (That means that Melania was pregnant when Trump was making his lewd remarks about assaulting other women.)Four months after Barron is born, porn star Stephanie Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels, alleged that she and Trump initiated a consensual, sexual relationship after meeting at a golf tournament.And through it all, Melania has remained. So, that’s their marriage. They clearly have some sort of understanding, some emotional elasticity — or financial dependency — that is beyond my comprehension.So that part is what it is.As for the present news, it is not clear to me if the money paid by Donald Trump’s personal attorney to Clifford, to prevent the disclosure of a sexual affair Clifford says she had with Trump, will be found in violation of federal campaign finance laws. Neither is it clear to me if the courts will allow Clifford to get out of her nondisclosure agreement.Those are all legal issues. What matters most to me about this sordid tale is the way it fits into a pattern of behavior and a Trump worldview about women: that they are mere objects and opportunities, a reward owed to men of wealth, and that objections and protestations are invalid.This is about the defamation of, silencing of, and shouting down of women.At the very same time that the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements have given voice to women, and led to men being held accountable, particularly in the private sector, Trump has almost single-handedly aided in the numbing of America’s sympathies for women who speak up about the sexual exploits, misdeeds and assaults of elected officials.America, this is not about partisanship; this is about principle. Each of us must proclaim that this situation is over the line, that women matter, that their voices and their stories matter, that propriety, honor and character matter.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONS“There was nothing she presented that would have been flagged,” a federal official said, speaking anonymously to discuss a fast-moving investigation involving several federal agencies. But, he said, “We’re going back right now and double-checking and looking over everyone’s shoulder who was involved.”Ms. Malik, 29, was granted a K-1 visa, also known as the fiancé visa, in Pakistan in July 2014, the officials said, and she traveled to the United States that month.The review process for a K-1 visa is “not as strict” as the vetting for refugees, Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, said. But immigration officials said the K-1 review was more extensive than the vetting of a foreigner who planned to only visit. Mr. Earnest said Obama administration officials were examining Ms. Malik’s journey to this country to see if any policies should be changed.For the K-1 visa, Mr. Farook, 28, started the application to bring in his fiancée, who provided a Pakistani passport.Adhering to standard procedure for the K-1 visa, Ms. Malik had to demonstrate to State Department consular officials in Pakistan that their relationship was legitimate, and that she and Mr. Farook intended to marry in the United States within 90 days after she received the visa. Mr. Farook had to prove that he and Ms. Malik had met in person at least once in the previous two years, typically done by providing photos showing them together, personal messages and travel reservations. After the 90-day period, a K-1 visa expires and cannot be renewed.As part of that review, Ms. Malik had a personal interview with a consular officer in Pakistan, federal officials said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The couple came to the country in July 2014 on a flight that originated in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, two federal officials said. According to a certificate obtained by The Associated Press, the two were married in Riverside County, Calif., in August 2014, within the 90-day time limit.On Sept. 30, 2014, Ms. Malik applied for a green card to become a permanent resident, based on her marriage to an American citizen. There is no limit on the number of green cards available to spouses of citizens, so the process generally moves quickly.Since green cards are granted by a different agency, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Ms. Malik had to undergo more background checks, probably providing a new set of fingerprints, officials said.It is routine for an officer from the citizenship agency to interview both spouses, but officials there could not confirm that Ms. Malik was interviewed, citing privacy concerns.Under the standard procedure, the couple would have had to provide documents and undergo questioning, primarily to persuade immigration officers their marriage was not fraudulent. Sometimes the officer will interview the spouses separately, asking highly personal questions about foods or pastimes the other spouse enjoyed or other intimate details, to make sure the immigrant and the spouse lived together.Ms. Malik received a conditional green card in July 2015, officials said. After two years, the couple would have had to apply again to get a regular green card, showing they were still married.Both were killed in a shootout with the police on Wednesday, leaving behind a 6-month-old daughter.An article on Saturday about the immigration record of Tashfeen Malik, the Pakistani woman who participated in the attack in San Bernardino, Calif., referred incorrectly to her request for a permanent resident green card. The application in September 2014 for Ms. Malik to receive a green card, after she had arrived in the United States on a 90-day K-1 “fiancé” visa, was filed by Ms. Malik, following a standard procedure — not by Syed Rizwan Farook, the American citizen she married who was the other assailant in the attack.Go to Home Page »The two-paragraph account by Mr. Farook is among application forms, passport photos and scanned passport pages that made up a 21-page application for the fiancée visa that Tashfeen Malik used to come to the United States in July 2014. The House Judiciary Committee released the documents Tuesday.On Dec. 2, the couple carried out a terrorist rampage at a meeting of Mr. Farook’s co-workers from the county health department in San Bernardino that left 14 dead. Mr. Farook and Ms. Malik were killed in a shootout with the police hours later.In the account, Mr. Farook told American immigration officials that the couple had met through a matrimonial website before meeting face to face in Saudi Arabia in October 2013 and deciding to marry. To obtain a fiancée visa, known as a K-1, a couple must demonstrate that they met in person at least once within the two years before the application was filed.“My fiancée and I intend to marry within the first month of her arriving in the U.S.,” Mr. Farook wrote in an “Intention to Marry” statement dated Jan. 20, 2014.Officials have discovered a potential link between the attackers and Islamic extremism.Homeland Security officials defended the scrutiny Ms. Malik received before she was granted a visa. They said that she had undergone numerous background checks and that her immigration file had contained “sufficient evidence” that she and Mr. Farook had been together in Saudi Arabia before her fiancée petition was filed.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This and other evidence provided was legally sufficient to establish that Malik was eligible for a fiancée petition and issuance of a visa to travel to the United States,” Joseph R. Holstead, a spokesman for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said Tuesday in a statement.In the years before the Dec. 2 attack, Mr. Farook had been looking online for a companion, describing himself in a dating profile as a devout young man who liked to fix cars and wanted a woman who also took religion seriously.In the application, Mr. Farook said Ms. Malik was born in Dera Ghazi Khan, Pakistan, on July 13, 1986. He said she was living in Multan in southern Pakistan, where she had studied at a conservative religious school for women. A form she filled out Dec. 29, 2013, listed no employer over the last five years.Mr. Farook made no mention of what federal officials say the two discussed online in private messages: a shared commitment to jihad and martyrdom.On the form, he answered no to a list of questions about whether he had any history of criminal convictions for violent crimes or controlled substances.Go to Home Page »Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your InboxEvery country regulates immigration in its own imperfect way. Some countries have populations that are 80 percent foreign-born but offer no pathway to permanency. Other countries put up huge barriers to citizenship except for people whose parents were born there.President Trump has called for a shift from what currently makes the American immigration system distinct: its focus on family ties, a framework that accounts for two-thirds of all residency visas, more than any other country. Instead, he and many Republicans would like most visas to be distributed based on employability, with a preference for those who are highly skilled, like doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs.The accompanying chart displays selected countries and the circumstances under which each one welcomes foreigners. It’s based on data from 2011, the latest year available for certain countries like China, and shows temporary migrants (like students and guest workers) and permanent migrants, broken down by the basis for their visa: family ties, employment, humanitarian purposes (as with refugees) or under a free-movement policy (as with the European Union).Simply put, the purpose of an immigration policy is to decide what types of people to allow inside the border. What would it look like if the United States adopted rules more like those of Canada, Japan or Qatar?  Compare the policies below.In 2011, Canada and Australia relied heavily on immigrants who were admitted based on employability, many of whom were allowed to stay permanently. Both countries used a merit-based point system to determine who qualified, assigning a number of points to criteria such as education, language skills and employment history.“If you think of the undocumented as 11 to 12 million temporary low-skilled laborers, then you have a system that looks a little bit more like Canada” in terms of temporary workers, he said. (In fact, Canada and Australia have a much greater proportion of temporary workers than the United States.)But a merit-based system doesn’t necessarily result in economic payoff, because skills don’t always lead to a job. For example, Canada has struggled to keep its merit-based workers employed since 1967, when the policy was first established.Another reason President Trump might not want to rely too heavily on Canada or Australia as models: Both countries allow in far more immigrants as a percentage of their population. If the United States were to follow their lead, it would involve admitting millions more people.Historically, most immigrants in Europe have been other Europeans. The European Union allows people to relocate between countries with a level of freedom that is unmatched elsewhere in the world, greatly widening employment pools.Mercosur, a trade bloc in South America, functions like the E.U., though it allows people to live outside their home countries for only two years at a time, after which they must apply for permission to stay permanently.It might help to imagine that these partnerships are like Nafta — the policy between the United States, Mexico and Canada that lowers barriers for trade, which President Trump has threatened to eliminate — but instead of goods, the agreements apply to people.In a system like that, Americans looking for work would be able to expand their searches into Canada and Mexico, but they would also compete against Canadian and Mexican candidates for jobs in the United States.South Korea and Japan are so stringent with immigration that they make the United States look lenient. This is partly because of a desire to preserve their cultures, a goal echoed by some conservative groups in the United States.The Gulf states allow a huge immigrant influx to meet the demand for cheap, low-skilled labor, but almost all of the immigrants are temporary, and they have few rights or protections.The only way that governments can sustain these heavy immigrant populations is by withholding the generous resources that are granted to ordinary citizens, such as free health care, free college tuition and marriage allowances.Most Americans would not be comfortable with this approach, said Morris Levy, a political scientist at the University of Southern California who studies public opinion on immigration.  “People dislike the idea of a permanent second-class citizen,” he said. “It goes back to a core set of values that people think of as really elemental to being American.”Based on the current debate, any solution that Congress agrees on will probably fall somewhere between international models. It could follow some trends that are occurring worldwide.For example, in many countries, including Canada and Australia, there has been a shift away from exclusively merit-based systems to ones that also consider whether someone has a job offer — something currently done in the United States.For purposes of immigration, the United States could narrow its definition of family, which is wider than that of any other country, to exclude siblings or adult children who are married.Although current American policies around family-based migration are the most generous in the world, the results look much different in practice because of limits on the number of visas that can be granted in each category.“There is a certain mindlessness to family immigration when you take into account eligibility and time,”  said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, co-founder of the Migration Policy Institute, a research organization. “Someone qualifies, but it may take 20 years before a visa is open to them.”“There is a major undisputed advantage to family immigration, chain migration; it’s become apparently a dirty word,” he said. “You have someone here who will show you the ropes, who will take you in that can set up employment for you. When it comes to immigrant integration, family is very important.”You could envision a merit-based system that incorporates characteristics of our current system. It could grant points to people who have family members in the United States, or who come from countries that are not highly represented in the current population.In that case, it might be desirable to pay attention to the weight each category is given and to adjust based on economic and social outcomes.“That is how you keep a point selection system,” Mr. Papademetriou said. “Everything else is just blind faith or politics. Our system that exists today is just politics.”“Immigration is social engineering,” said Mr. Gest, the George Mason University professor. “You’re building the population of the future.”The law applies to foreigners who would otherwise be eligible to travel to the United States without a visa. It denies that privilege to anyone who has visited Iran in the past five years or who holds Iranian citizenship. The same restriction applies to citizens of or visitors to Syria, Iraq or Sudan.Iran, however, is a Shiite-majority country that opposes Sunni fundamentalist groups and is helping to fight them.The accord, completed in July, was expected to take effect early in 2016, and Iran has been hoping that many more tourists and businesspeople from Europe and elsewhere will start to visit Iran once the sanctions are lifted.But many Europeans who now enjoy visa-free travel to the United States may be deterred from visiting Iran if a stamp from that country in their passports would disqualify them from easy access to the United States.In a letter on Saturday, the day after President Obama signed the law, Secretary of State John Kerry sought to reassure his Iranian counterpart, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, that the administration would use executive authority to waive the provision if necessary.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But five congressional Republicans who strongly supported the new law delivered a sharp rejoinder to Mr. Kerry in their own letter on Wednesday.“Congress and the president strengthened the V.W.P. in order to protect the national security of the United States,” they wrote, using the initials of the visa waiver program. “Iran is impacted by this new law because it is a U.S.-designated state sponsor of terrorism. The simplest way to eliminate this restriction is for Iran to end its support of terrorism.”They urged Mr. Kerry to “press Tehran on this, as well as its recent missile tests and persistent jailing of Americans. The problem is with Iranian actions, not the new visa waiver law.”The letter was signed by Representative Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee; the House majority leader, Kevin McCarthy of California; Representative Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee; Representative Michael McCaul of Texas, the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee; and Representative Candice Miller of Michigan, the author of the new law.Go to Home Page »Supported byPresident Trump addressed a range of policy issues, from tax cuts to gun policy to immigration, at Friday’s annual meeting of the Conservative Political Action Conference. Below is a look at some of the facts and figures he cited that were accurate, false or could use some additional context.Also, Mr. Trump is not the first president in 45 years to enact tax cuts. Tax legislation was signed into law by Presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Further, the cuts passed under Mr. Reagan and Mr. Obama were larger, as a share of the economy, than those recently signed by Mr. Trump.Under the Obama administration, the United States offered to cut emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels, by 2025, as part of the Paris agreement.Mr. Trump is likely referring to the Green Climate Fund, a United Nations program to help poorer countries mitigate the effects of climate change.Lisa Friedman contributed reporting.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSPrecisely why Iran was included on the list is unclear, since it is a foe of the Islamic State, the militant extremist group accused of organizing or fomenting the attacks.Iranian politicians, especially hard-liners who harbor great antipathy toward the United States, are saying the measure will be an obstacle to trade after the implementation of the nuclear agreement and the lifting of the first sanctions against Iran, scheduled in late January.Mr. Kerry is now promising that this will not be an outcome of the visa restrictions. “We will implement them so as not to interfere with legitimate business interests of Iran,” he wrote in the letter.The restrictions are part of an amendment to the current visa-free arrangement among 38 countries, including members of the European Union and the United States. It will mean that tourists, businesspeople and others from friendly countries in Europe as well as Australia, Japan and South Korea, who have visited Iraq, Syria, Sudan and Iran will soon be forced to apply for a United States visa, instead of traveling freely.Many of these countries are expected to take countermeasures because the visa-free arrangement is based on reciprocity.Iranian state radio on Saturday called the amendment the first “American, anti-Iranian measure” since the signing of the nuclear agreement. An influential member of Parliament, Allaedin Boroujerdi, said the move violated the nuclear agreement, which was supposed to ease or end many sanctions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The U.S. Congress’s bill is in contradiction to the deal, because they promised us not to impose any restrictions on Iranian nationals,” Mr. Boroujerdi was quoted as saying by the Tasnim news agency in Iran on Sunday.On Monday, Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hossein Jaberi-Ansari, blamed Israeli groups for having pushed to include Iran in the visa measure.“There is a large opposition to the nuclear deal with Zionist lobbyists spearheading the efforts that have been made for the deal not to come to fruition,” he was quoted as saying by Press TV, an English-language news agency backed by the government. “What was done in the U.S. was on the back of the Zionist lobby pressure that was opposed to the agreement with Iran.”Some Iranians sought to play down the problem, pointing to Iran’s recent missile tests that angered the United States government but did not appear to endanger the nuclear agreement.“The United States complains, but that’s it, everybody wants to move forward,” said one analyst who preferred not to be identified because he did not want to jeopardize his job. “This is just an obstacle, that’s it.”Go to Home Page »Supported byThe trump presidencyeconomy— Binyamin Appelbaumeconomy— Linda Qiueconomy— Jim Tankersleyhealth care— Robert Peareconomy— Jim Tankersleyeconomy— Jim Tankersleyhealth care— Robert Pearenergy— Coral Davenporteconomy— Linda Qiuhealth care— Robert Pearinfrastructure— Emily Cochraneimmigration— Ron NixonimmigrationThe visa lottery program provides 50,000 immigrant visas to people from countries with low immigration rates to the United States.An 18-page guide from the State Department says applicants must have a high school education or two years of work experience in the past five years that requires “two years of training or experience.”The applicant must undergo a medical exam and cannot have a criminal record. Visa winners are then subjected to a lengthy background check that can last for months.— Ron Nixonimmigration— Ron Nixonnational securityAmerican-led forces had already wrested more than 13,000 square miles of territory from the group by the time Mr. Trump was elected in November 2016. Things accelerated after he gave American commanders more authority to order airstrikes and make battlefield decisions. But the defeat of the caliphate does not mean the end of the Islamic State, or ISIS, as a movement or ideology.economyBack then, level of the stock market was significantly lower, reflecting the impact of the financial crisis in the United States and the deep recession that followed. Under Mr. Obama, stocks continued to recover and also notched a series of record highs, starting in 2013.— Matt Phillipstrade— Natalie Kitroeffeconomy— Jim Tankersleytaxes— Jim TankersleyJoseph P. Kennedy III delivered the Democratic response to the State of the Union. Below is a fact check of his remarks.economy— Linda QiuCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSPYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Twenty years ago, it would have been hard to imagine 8-year-old Oksana Masters — three feet tall, 35 pounds, no thumbs and misshapen legs — included in an NBC montage of the world’s best athletes, or having her face plastered on train station posters.Masters’s emergence as one of the bigger and better-compensated stars in U.S. Olympic sports illustrates how an athlete’s back-story — and the social and traditional media buzz it can generate — can be as important as what transpires on the field of play, or even the competition in which she is participating. And few athletes have a back-story as compelling and aspirational as Masters, who has already been featured in Sports Illustrated and posed nude for ESPN The Magazine.Masters’s agent Brant Feldman, who also represents other Olympic athletes who would kill for Masters’s sponsor portfolio, said she wants to show people that may look like her that they can still aspire to anything even if you don’t have legs. “These brands have allowed her to bring that message out there,” he said.At the games themselves, Masters, a double amputee and nordic skier, plans to enter as many as six events. It’s a remarkable load for any athlete. But it is one that Masters, a multisport athlete who also competed at the Paralympic Games in London (rowing), Sochi (cross-country skiing) and Rio (cycling), is more than equipped to handle.Born in Ukraine in 1989 with severe physical defects most likely related to radiation poisoning from the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster, Masters was given up for adoption at birth. She spent her first seven and a half years in the country’s troubled orphanage system, where malnourishment and emotional and physical abuse were common. Children were bullied by older orphans, and exploited by adults.At age 6, she was given a photo of Gay Masters, a single American woman who wanted to adopt her. Oksana Masters clung to the picture and waited. It gave her hope. But a ban on Ukraine adoptions delayed her prospective mother for two years.“I was a troublemaker,” Oksana Masters says. “I got in a lot of trouble and never learned from that. If they hit me, I just laughed. It’s the one thing they can’t take from you.“They started saying, ‘Your mom’s not coming to get you, because you’re a bad girl.’ You start to believe it.”Masters doesn’t like to focus on the suffering she endured, but she has vivid memories of the night her mother rescued her. She wanted to stay up and wait for her new mother, who had again been delayed by paperwork in Kiev, but her caretakers forced her to go to bed.“I remember the hallway was super dark and dim-lit and smelled like mildew, and I remember sliding on the floor a little bit on the way to bed because the pipes were burst and water was leaking,” she recalls. “When they put you to bed, you’re laying on your back and they tuck the covers under you super tight so you can’t turn.”Then she felt a tap on her shoulder. Gay Masters was kneeling by her bed with a Ukrainian interpreter.“I said, ‘I know you. You’re my mom. I have your picture,’” Oksana Masters says. “I remember her smiling and her hand touching me. She said, ‘I know you. You’re my daughter.’”When she arrived to her new home in Buffalo, Masters was nearly 8 years old, undersized and emaciated. She soon gained weight, grew and adjusted to life in the U.S., but she faced a daunting set of medical issues.Masters was born with five webbed fingers on each hand, and no thumbs. Her left leg was six inches shorter than her right, and her legs lacked weight-bearing bones. She had endured multiple, and in some cases misguided, surgeries in Ukraine. Later, doctors would discover that she was missing some of her stomach, as well as parts of her arm muscles and ligaments. She was born without tooth enamel — at the orphanage she was held down as a tooth was pulled without anesthesia. She arrived in the United States with four abscessed teeth and a fear of the dentist.“Love is not the only answer,” says Gay Masters, a speech and language pathologist at the University of Louisville. “You have to really work hard to help them trust and grow. But she came with so much spunk, I just got out of her way."She recalls how her daughter once saw another child dangling from the top bar of a swing set. Oksana Masters wanted to do it, too, but with webbed hands and no thumbs, she couldn’t grasp the bar. “I put her down and said, ‘This is one of the things you need thumbs for,’” Gay Masters says.Ever-defiant, Oksana Masters later persuaded a babysitter to take her back to the swing set. “Within two weeks she could do it by herself,” her mother says. “Turns out, you don’t need thumbs to do that. That girl surprises me; she always has. She’s always done the impossible.”The challenges continued: surgeries to separate her webbed fingers and to create thumbs; the amputation of her shorter leg at age 9 and the other leg at 14, with the promise of improved mobility with prosthetic limbs; and a move to Louisville, to be closer to her grandfather.Oksana Masters struggled with adjusting to a new school, her new body and prosthetics, and the return of dark memories of the orphanage. Her mother pushed her to try sports, including a rowing group for children with disabilities.“As soon as she got into the water, she was so good,” her mother says. “Sports did save her life. She took all that anger, all that fear, and worked it out.”Oksana Masters stuck with the sport, progressing through the rowing circuit. In 2011 she partnered with Rob Jones, a Marine veteran who had lost both legs in a land mine explosion the previous year. Masters and Jones won the bronze medal at the 2012 London Paralympic Games, and she was hooked on international competition.But rowing was just the start. After London, Oksana met Eileen Carey, the head coach for U.S. Paralympic Nordic Skiing, who recruited her to try out for the Winter Games.She began training in Colorado, where she fell in love with both winter sports and Aaron Pike, an accomplished wheelchair track athlete at the University of Illinois-Champaign who had also been invited to the nordic training camp.“We started flirting and talking,” Masters says. “Next thing you know I’m asking if I can do laundry there. I had laundry where I was, I was just looking for reasons to come over.”The relationship moved slowly. Both competed for the U.S. Paralympic teams in Sochi, where Masters won silver and bronze in cross-country skiing, and in Rio de Janeiro — Masters in hand cycling and Pike in track. Now both have qualified for Pyeongchang in cross-country skiing and biathlon, and they train and live together in Bozeman, Mont.“I get more nervous watching her,” says Pike. “I hope she doesn’t fall, that she hits every shot. I’m less nervous starting my own race.”After having a single deal with KT Tape in Rio two years ago, Masters has recently won the support of major sponsors — including Toyota, Procter & Gamble, The Hartford, Visa, and Nike — easing a burden after years of financial struggles (she once slept in her car during a competition because she didn’t have the money for a hotel).Shiffrin, who met Masters during a commercial shoot for Visa in New Zealand, said she was an immediate fan.“She was so cool and down to earth and peppy and just seemed like she’s totally inspired on life,” Shiffrin said. “Then I heard about her story and was just dumbfounded by how much she’s had to overcome her entire life, but she’s the last person to hold a grudge. I take a lot of inspiration from that.”One more obstacle cropped up for Masters in the lead-up to her fourth Paralympics, in Pyeongchang, where she had been viewed as a top contender after winning four gold medals at the 2017 World Para Nordic Skiing World Championships. In late February, she slipped on a patch of ice in Bozeman, falling and dislocating her elbow. The injury was a significant setback — she may have to switch her shooting arm in the biathlon, and it’s unclear how fast she can propel herself on skis without full strength in her elbow. Undaunted, she plans to compete in the biathlon on Saturday and take part in six events during the games.“I’m not chasing medals,” Masters wrote in an Instagram post. “I’m chasing after my dream of representing my country, any young girl who was ever told she would be too small to be an athlete, anyone who was ever told it would be impossible to comeback from an injury and still compete at an Olympic and Paralympic Games.”When Shiffrin learned about Masters’ injury, she posted an Instagram photo of the two of them and was eager to offer support. “That’s a really big injury to have,” Shiffrin said. “But I have absolutely no doubt that she’s going to be able to blow everyone away with how she overcomes it and her mental toughness.”Masters said she plans to approach these games as she does every race. As she watches the clock tick down to the start, she will take a breath. “I say, ‘I am’ — I breathe out — ‘strong. I am strong.’ And then I just take off.”Go to Home Page »The attack is believed to have been inspired by the Islamic State terrorist group. Lawmakers fear that terrorists could exploit weaknesses in the visa program, including the program’s inability to accurately track people who overstay, to carry out attacks on American soil.The report, which lawmakers have been demanding for nearly 20 years, shows that the number of overstays — about a half-million in all — was slightly higher for citizens of countries where a visa is required to visit the United States than for those from countries like France and Germany who are exempt under a visa-waiver program. About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less.Officials acknowledge that the report is imprecise. It covers visitors who arrived in the United States by plane or ship, but not those who entered by land.The report, mandated by Congress in 1997, is the first to conclusively examine a population that immigration officials know little about. Lawmakers have pressed Homeland Security officials for information on those who overstay their visas, but efforts to collect the information have dragged because of the difficulty in collecting and analyzing data.In early 2013, Janet Napolitano, then the secretary of Homeland Security, told Congress that the agency planned to issue a report on overstay rates by December 2013. The agency did not follow through because officials said they did not have confidence in the quality of the data.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Now that the first report on overstays has been completed, it will be done annually, Homeland Security officials said.Many members of Congress and some law enforcement officials worry about misuse of the visa program because the United States does not routinely collect biometric information — fingerprints, iris scans and photographs that can be used for facial recognition — of people leaving the country. Nearly three dozen countries collect such information.Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Satam al-Suqami and Nawaf al-Hazmi, overstayed their visas.Nearly 20 years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the federal government to develop a system to track people who overstayed their visas. After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, an entry and exit tracking system was seen as a vital national security and counterterrorism tool, and the 9/11 Commission recommended that the Department of Homeland Security complete a system “as soon as possible.”Since then, the federal government has spent millions of dollars on the effort, yet until the release of the report Tuesday, officials could only roughly estimate the number of people in the United States illegally after overstaying visas.Officials with Homeland Security told members of the Senate Judiciary Committee during a hearing on Wednesday that the department was testing new technologies that would allow United States Customs and Border Protection to collect exit information from foreign travelers. The technologies include a facial recognition program that began at Kennedy International Airport on Tuesday.Go to Home Page »Supported byThe ConversationI am not going to be catty and say that at present, such a strategy would cut terribly into his cheeseburger-and-Fox executive time.But with Mitch McConnell promising a “free and open debate,” let’s talk about the still-to-come fights. Tell me, Bret, what’s your theory of the ideal immigration plan?First, we give Dreamers green cards provided there isn’t a criminal record. If they’ve served (or would agree to serve) in the military, I’d give them automatic citizenship. And if the political price for that is funding for a border wall, I would swallow it. I’d rather squander money on unnecessary concrete than continue toying with the lives of nearly a million people who are already our fellow Americans in nearly every respect save paperwork.I could go on for hours but the bottom line is that the United States is and should remain a land of immigrants, skilled or (like my ancestors) unskilled, provided they are eager to make a go of the American dream and play by American rules.It is true that the guy who killed eight innocent people with a truck in Manhattan was a product of the visa program, a program that was started to give more Irish and Italians a chance to legally immigrate.But what drives me nuts is that the president constantly points to this one terrible crime as an argument that the visa program is bad, while every single day we have stories about innocent people blasted to smithereens by guns, and we never hear a peep. If we wanted to keep America safe, we would really, really crack down on gun purchases.However, I am not demanding we do that to keep the government open.I wrote a column last week pointing out that the same stereotypes and slanders applied today by people like Jeff Sessions against present-day immigrants were made over a century ago against my impoverished Jewish ancestors, who didn’t speak English, didn’t have Ph.D.s, and in a few cases held dangerous political views. Yet just imagine how much worse off America would be today if it had kept out the parents of a Jonas Salk, a Leonard Bernstein or a Mike Bloomberg. The same goes for every single other immigrant group, past or present.Except Norwegians, of course!But about that little shutdown. Any other thoughts?Why? Because the country doesn’t like having its government stop functioning on account of a partisan position, even one as worthy as a deal for the Dreamers. It will especially hurt vulnerable Democrats, like Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, who is facing re-election in a state in which Trump crushed Hillary Clinton. And it reminds me of a purported exchange that Adlai Stevenson had with a voter who told him that “every thinking man will vote for you.”“That’s not enough,” he supposedly replied. “I need a majority.”My bottom line is that the shutdown was so brief, it’s not going to last in anyone’s memory by the next election date. Presuming there’s no bigger problem down the road.And the president is not doing his party any favors by running those loathsome ads saying the Democrats will be responsible for murders by immigrants. Maybe the hard-core base is into that stuff but average people do not like that kind of viciousness.Maybe that pattern will repeat itself once again, but I’m not so sure. If the economy continues to do well, a majority of voters get a bigger tax break than they anticipate, and the Russia investigation comes up empty-handed, then Democrats run the risk of being the party that cried wolf.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONS“I don’t have to be angry or cause drama,” said Ms. Moore, 53, who had worked at Disney for 10 years. “But they are just doing things to save a buck, and it’s making Americans poor.”Ms. Moore had also trained her replacement. After she was laid off, she applied for more than 150 other jobs at Disney. She did not get one.The Labor Department opened investigations of the outsourcing companies — the direct employers of the temporary immigrants — at Disney and at Southern California Edison, a utility that laid off hundreds of American workers in 2014. The investigations are continuing. At least 30 former Disney workers also filed complaints with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, claiming that they faced discrimination as American citizens.The lawsuits by Mr. Perrero and Ms. Moore are based on the rules for H-1B visas, which Congress designed to bring foreign workers with special skills into the country. Employers are required to declare to the Department of Labor that hiring foreigners on the visas “will not adversely affect the working conditions of U.S. workers similarly employed.”“Was I negatively affected?” Ms. Moore asked. “Yeah, I was. I lost my job.”Sara Blackwell, a lawyer in Sarasota, Fla., representing the former Disney employees, said the suits charged that the companies had lied under oath when they said no Americans would lose their jobs.Disney, in a statement on Monday, said, “These lawsuits are based on an unsustainable legal theory and are a wholesale misrepresentation of the facts.” The company said more than 100 of the workers who were laid off in Orlando had been rehired.HCL has said it complies carefully with United States laws. Cognizant, in a statement on Monday, said that it would not comment on the lawsuit, but that it “fully complies with all U.S. regulations regarding H-1B visas.”The company said an internal compliance team “ensures our practices are not merely compliant with existing laws in letter and spirit, but also adhere to best practices.” Cognizant said it employed “many thousands of U.S. citizens and residents in addition to employees on lawful H-1B visas.”Responding to the frustration of American workers, Congress in December renewed and increased a fee on outsourcing companies that it had allowed to lapse. Larger companies employing many H-1B workers in the United States will pay an extra fee of $4,000 for each new H-1B visa — up from $2,000 — and another $4,000 to move an H-1B immigrant who is already in the country to a new employer.Senator Bill Nelson of Florida, a Democrat who has been openly critical of Disney’s layoffs, offered a bill to reduce the H-1B quota by 15,000 visas a year to 70,000. The issue came up in the presidential race, as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, a Republican candidate, introduced a bill with Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a Republican hard-liner on immigration, to sharply increase the minimum wage for H-1B workers to $110,000 a year, to discourage outsourcing companies from using the workers to lower wages.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But local recruiters told him that despite the company’s statements, Disney managers said they would avoid rehiring workers who had been laid off. Mr. Perrero said he knew of only two workers from the close-knit group of more than 200 who were dismissed who went back to tech jobs at Disney.Mr. Perrero said he was “part Italian, part English, part Swedish.” He said, “I wholeheartedly believe our country needs to have amazing people come here to build a long-term foundation.” But he said the H-1B program had been abused.Ms. Moore said that even with strong programming credentials, it was hard for her to start over in her 50s with another company. She has 13 grandchildren, and she confessed that one of the difficult losses was a pass that allowed her to take them to Disney World at no cost.Go to Home Page »LONDON/MOSCOW —  Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.Yulia and Sergei Skripal, 66, were found slumped unconscious on a public bench in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Britain said they were poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent, the first known use of such a toxin on European soil since World War Two.London has blamed Russia for the attempted murder while Moscow denies any involvement. The incident has had major diplomatic ramifications, with mass expulsions of Russian and Western diplomats."We have told our British colleagues that 'you're playing with fire and you'll be sorry'," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia told a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Thursday that Moscow had requested."We didn't do it, we're not guilty," Nebenzia said.British U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce told the Security Council that Britain's actions "stand up to any scrutiny" and pledged to keep the 15-member body updated on the inquiry."We have nothing to hide ... but I do fear that Russia might have something to fear," Pierce said.Deputy U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kelley Currie told the council: "We have stated previously and do so again today our firm belief that Russia is responsible for this chemical weapons attack on U.K. soil".The attack left the Skripals in critical condition and doctors had initially feared that even if they did survive, they might have suffered permanent brain damage.But while her father remains stable in intensive care, Yulia's health has improved rapidly. On Thursday she issued a statement through British police to thank hospital staff and people who came to her help when "when my father and I were incapacitated".Her recovery means she can help British counter-terrorism police with their investigation although she did not give any details about what had happened in her brief remarks.Britain's Foreign Office said she had been offered assistance by Russia's embassy but had so far declined."I woke up over a week ago now and am glad to say my strength is growing daily. I am grateful for the interest in me and for the many messages of goodwill that I have received," said Yulia, 33."I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you'll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence."Hours before the statement issued by British police, Russian state TV and Interfax reported that Yulia had phoned her cousin Viktoria Skripal in Russia, saying she and her father were both recovering and that she expected to leave hospital soon."Everything is fine, everything is fixable, everyone is getting better, everyone is alive," they quoted her as saying in the call.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Asked about her father's health, Yulia was cited as saying: "Everything is fine, he is resting right now, sleeping ... nobody has any problems that can't be put right."Russian state TV said it could not vouch for the authenticity of the quotes. Viktoria Skripal has said she plans to travel to England if she can get a visa.DIPLOMATIC LOWPolice believe the nerve agent was left on the front door of the home in Salisbury where Skripal, a military intelligence colonel who betrayed dozens of Russian agents to Britain's MI6 spy service, lived after he was freed in a spy swap.The attack has driven Moscow's relations with the West to a new post-Cold War low, with Britain and its allies, including the United States, expelling about 130 diplomats and the Kremlin responding in kind.On Wednesday, Russia lost its call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning at a meeting of global watchdog the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Moscow's ambassador to London Alexander Yakovenko said on Thursday Russia had never made Novichok, the Soviet-era nerve agent which British experts say was the toxin used.He said the Kremlin would accept the results of OPCW tests but only if there was transparency and they were confirmed by experts from outside Europe and NATO.While scientists at the Porton Down biological and chemical weapons laboratory near Salisbury have concluded the toxin was Novichok, its chief executive said on Tuesday they had not yet determined whether it was made in Russia.That prompted even some allies to say London needs to provide more evidence of Russian culpability.Britain says there